
Singe, and remove all pin feathers. Before drawing the bird give it a
thorough scrubbing with a brush, in a warm Fairy soap solution. This is
very necessary for it cleans off all dirt that becomes mixed with the
oily secretions, and opens and cleanses the pores that the oil may be
more readily extracted. Draw and remove everything that can be taken
out, then rinse thoroughly and wipe inside and out, with a clean crash
towel; sprinkle the inside lightly with salt, pepper, and powdered sage.
(The latter may be omitted.)
Stuff with the following mixture and truss as turkey.
PROCESS: Mix the ingredients in the order given and fill the body of the
goose.
After trussing, place the goose on a rack in a dripping pan, sprinkle
with salt, cover the breast with thin slices of fat salt pork, and place
in the oven. Cook three-quarters of an hour, basting often with the fat
in the pan. Then remove pan from oven and drain off all the fat. Remove
the slices of pork and sprinkle again with salt and dredge with flour
and return to oven. When the flour is delicately browned, add one cup of
boiling water and baste often; add more water when necessary. Sprinkle
lightly with salt and again dredge with flour. Cook until tender, from
one and one-half to three hours, according to the age of the bird. If
you have a very young goose it is infinitely better to steam or braise
it until tender, then dredge it with salt and flour and brown it richly
in the oven. Serve on a bed of cress, garnish with Baked Snow or
Jonathan apples.
Pare, core and cut in quarters, five medium-sized Greenings. Cook with
very little water; when quite dry, rub through a fine purée strainer. To
the pulp add one-half cup granulated sugar, five tablespoons grated
horseradish, then fold in an equal quantity of whipped cream. Serve at
once with roast goose, ducks or goslings.
Cook one quart of uniform-sized, silver-skinned onions in boiling salted
water. When quite tender, drain and turn into a baking dish; cover with
Cream Sauce (see Page 151), sprinkle the top with fine buttered cracker
crumbs and finish cooking. Brown crumbs delicately.
Select crisp, well-bleached heads of endive, separate the leaves,
keeping the green leaves separate from the bleached; wash and dry.
Dispose the leaves on individual plates of ample size. Arrange the green
leaves first, then the bleached leaves until a nest has been formed;
fill the centers with the hearts of celery cut in one-half inch pieces.
Cut a slice from the stem end of crisp red and green peppers, remove the
seeds and veins and cut in the thinnest shreds possible, using the
shears. Strew these shreds over each portion and, just before serving,
marinate each with French Dressing.
PROCESS: Make a syrup by boiling sugar and water three minutes. Cool
slightly and add to cream, add vanilla and freeze in the usual way. Pack
in a brick-shape mold. Bury in salt and ice, let stand several hours.
Remove from mold to serving platter and pour around each portion Hot
Chocolate Sauce.
Melt two squares chocolate in a sauce-pan, add one cup sugar, one
tablespoon butter and two-thirds cup boiling water. Simmer fifteen
minutes. Cool slightly and add three-fourths teaspoon vanilla.
Use recipe for Bride's Cake (see recipe on Page 175). Bake in a sheet.
When cool cut in two-inch cubes and cover each cube with Boiled
Frosting; sprinkle thickly with fresh grated cocoanut.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add gradually one cup sugar, stirring
constantly. Beat egg yolks thick and light, add gradually remaining cup
of sugar; combine mixtures. Add melted chocolate. Mix and sift flour,
baking powder and salt; add to first mixture alternately with milk. Add
nut meats and vanilla, then cut and fold in the whites of eggs beaten
stiff. Turn into a well-greased tube pan and bake forty-five minutes in
a moderate oven. Cool and spread with boiled frosting.
[Sidenote: _January_
_Second Sunday_]
To six cups of hot Consommé add egg balls, serving three or four in each
portion.
PROCESS: Mash yolk, rub through a sieve, add finely chopped white,
seasonings, parsley and cream. Moisten with some of the yolk of a raw
egg until of the consistency to handle. Shape with the hands in tiny
balls and poach two minutes in boiling water or a little consommé.
Remove with skimmer. Serve at once.
Remove the skin from a sea bass, bone and cut fillets in pieces for
serving. Rub over with the cut side of a lemon, sprinkle with salt,
pepper, dredge with flour. Dip in egg (diluted with two tablespoons cold
water) then in fine cracker crumbs; repeat. Place in croquette basket
and fry in deep, hot Cottolene. Drain, arrange on hot serving platter.
Garnish with Norwegian Potatoes, parsley and slices of lemon. Serve
Sauce Tartare in a sauce boat.
(For recipe for Sauce Tartare see page 84.)
Wash, scrub and pare six medium size potatoes. Cook in boiling salted
water until tender. Drain, pass through ricer. Add six anchovies drained
from the oil in bottle and cut in one-fourth inch pieces, one-half
teaspoon finely chopped parsley, one-half teaspoon French mustard, salt
if necessary, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, a few grains nutmeg, two
tablespoons butter, and yolks two eggs slightly beaten. Beat thoroughly,
place on range and cook slowly three minutes, stirring constantly.
Remove from range, spread mixture on plate to cool, then mold like small
eggs. Roll in crumbs, egg and crumbs. Arrange in croquette basket and
fry a golden brown in deep, hot Cottolene.
To one can of hot tomatoes add two-thirds cup toasted bread crumbs.
Season with salt, few drops Tobasco sauce, two tablespoons sugar, and
one-fourth cup butter. Heat to boiling point and turn into hot serving
dish.
Chop crisp, white cabbage very fine (there should be two cups). Chop one
green pepper and one medium-sized Bermuda onion the same. Mix well and
season with one teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon black pepper, one
teaspoon celery seed and three tablespoons sugar. Dilute one-fourth cup
vinegar with two tablespoons cold water; add to relish. Chill and serve
in crisp lettuce leaves.
PROCESS: Mix sugar, cornstarch, flour and salt, add boiling water
gradually, stirring constantly. Cook over hot water until mixture
thickens; continue stirring. Add lemon juice, rind, butter, and egg
yolks. Line a pie pan with Rich Paste, wet edges, and lay around a rim
of pastry one inch wide; flute edge. Cool mixture and turn in lined pan.
Bake in a moderate oven until crust is well browned. Remove from oven,
cool slightly, spread with meringue, return to oven to bake and brown
meringue.
PROCESS: Beat whites until stiff and dry; add sugar by the teaspoonful;
continue beating. Add flavoring, drop by drop. Spread unevenly over pie
and bake fifteen minutes in a slow oven; brown the last five minutes of
baking.
To prepare after-dinner coffee, use twice the quantity of coffee or half
the quantity of water, given in recipe for Boiled Coffee (see Page 30).
This coffee may be prepared in the Percolator, following the directions
given in the foregoing. Milk or cream is not served with black coffee.
Serve in hot after-dinner coffee cups, with or without cut loaf sugar.
[Sidenote: _January_
_Third Sunday_]
PROCESS: Cook fowl same as for Boiled Fowl (do not tie in cheese cloth).
Drain fowl from stock, and strain. When cold, remove fat, and clear.
Reheat, add noodles, and simmer twenty minutes. Sprinkle with parsley
and serve very hot.
PROCESS: Beat egg slightly, add seasonings, add flour enough to make a
stiff dough. Knead on a floured board until smooth and elastic. Roll out
on a sheet as thin as paper, cover and let stand for half an hour. Roll
loosely and cut the desired width, either in threads or ribbons, unroll
and scatter over board; let lay half an hour. Cook in boiling, salted
water fifteen minutes, drain and add to soup. Noodles may be cooked in
Consommé twenty minutes but the soup will not be as clear as when
noodles are cooked previously.
Have five pounds of beef, cut from the face of the rump. Wipe meat,
sprinkle with salt, pepper, and dredge with flour. Brown richly in an
iron skillet in some of its own fat tried out, turning often. Remove to
kettle and cover with boiling water. Add one tablespoon salt, one-half
teaspoon peppercorns, a bit of bay leaf, one carrot sliced, one turnip
sliced, and one-half onion sliced. Add two sprays each of parsley and
thyme and one of marjoram. Cover and heat to boiling point. Skim when
necessary. Reduce heat and simmer until meat is tender (four or five
hours). Remove to serving platter. Strain stock and use for soup or
sauces. Serve meat with hot Horseradish Sauce. (For recipe see page 51.)
Cook one cup macaroni, broken in inch pieces, in boiling salted water
twenty minutes. Drain, and pour over cold water to separate pieces. Mix
with one and one-half cups Tomato Sauce. Add one-half cup grated cheese.
Turn into a buttered baking dish, cover with buttered crumbs, bake
twenty minutes in a hot oven.
PROCESS: Heat tomatoes to boiling point; add soda and the seven
ingredients following. Cook twenty minutes. Rub through a purée
strainer, add stock. Brown butter in a sauce-pan, add flour and continue
browning, stirring constantly. Add hot tomato mixture slowly, mix well,
and pour over Macaroni.
Cut the hearts of celery in one-inch pieces, cut pieces in straws to
fill one cup. Remove the pulp from grape fruit, leaving each
half-section in its original shape. There should be one cup. Peel and
chill four medium-sized tomatoes (Southern or hot-house at this season),
cut in slices. Cut the bleached leaves of Chicory in pieces for serving,
arrange in nests on serving dish, and arrange other ingredients in
separate mounds in the nests. Marinate with French Dressing, and garnish
each with chopped parsley, green and red sweet peppers cut in
thread-like strips, and sprays of pepper-grass or parsley. Pass
Mayonnaise Dressing.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring constantly, add
yolks of eggs beaten very light. Mix and sift flour, baking powder and
salt, add to first mixture alternately with milk; cut and fold in the
stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Turn in a well-buttered tube mold, and
steam one and one-half hours. Serve with Vanilla, Strawberry, or Banana
Sauce.
PROCESS: Make a syrup by boiling water and sugar ten minutes. Rub
bananas through a sieve, add remaining ingredients and beat until well
blended and light. Pour on hot syrup slowly, beating constantly. Serve
hot. Pulp of peaches or apricots may be used in place of bananas.
[Sidenote: _January_
_Fourth Sunday_]
PROCESS: Cut salt pork in one-fourth inch cubes and try out in a frying
pan; add onion, and cook until yellow. Pare and cut potatoes in one-half
inch cubes, parboil five minutes. Add to onion, with corn and water;
cover and cook twenty minutes or until potatoes are soft. Melt butter in
a sauce-pan, add flour, stir to a smooth paste, pour some of the milk on
slowly, stirring constantly. Combine mixtures; add crumbs and
seasonings. Serve for dinner in cups or in small "nappies."
Separate ox-tails at joints, parboil five minutes; then rinse
thoroughly. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and dredge with flour. Melt
one-fourth cup butter in frying pan, add three slices onion and joints,
sauté until joints are well browned. Remove joints and onion; to fat add
one-fourth cup flour, brown slightly, stirring constantly. Add slowly
two cups of Brown Stock, or water and a large can of tomatoes. Add
one-half tablespoon salt and one-fourth teaspoon pepper. Turn into an
earthen casserole, or Dutch oven, cover, place in oven and simmer slowly
three to four hours. Add more moisture if necessary. Remove joints,
strain liquor, return joints to liquor, add one cup each carrot and
turnip cut in straws and parboiled in boiling, salted water ten minutes,
and set in oven to complete cooking. Serve in Casserole or in a deep
platter surrounded with a border of boiled rice.
Wash one cup of rice, drain and add slowly to three quarts boiling
salted water so as not to stop water boiling. Boil rapidly until rice is
tender (twenty to twenty-five minutes). Drain in a sieve, pour over cold
water to separate kernels. Turn into double boiler, and cover with a
crash towel; keep hot over hot water.
Wash parsnips, cover with boiling water, add salt to season. Cook until
tender--thirty-five to fifty minutes. Drain and cover quickly with cold
water; rub off skins with the hands. Cut in one-fourth inch slices,
sprinkle with salt, pepper; dip in flour and sauté a golden brown in hot
butter. Brown on one side, then turn and brown on the other.
Mix two cream cheeses with one-half cup finely chopped pimentos. (Drain
pimentos from liquor in can, and dry them on crash towel.) Add one
tablespoon finely chopped chives or onion, one-half teaspoon finely
chopped parsley, season with salt and cayenne. Moisten with thick cream,
and pack solidly in prepared green pepper-cups. Set aside in a cold
place for several hours. With a sharp knife cut in thin slices
crosswise. Arrange two slices on crisp lettuce leaves; serve with French
Dressing.
PROCESS: Peel the oranges, separate the sections, remove the tough
membrane and seeds. Dispose a layer of orange pulp in bottom of shallow,
glass, serving-dish, sprinkle with wine and lemon juice and sugar, strew
with cocoanut and a layer of thinly sliced banana. Repeat until all
ingredients are used, having a thick layer of cocoanut on top. The fruit
should be piled in cone shape. Chill and serve with dainty cakes,
macaroons, Anise wafers, etc.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, add egg yolks, one at a
time, beating constantly. Beat whites of eggs stiff, add to first
mixture alternately with flour mixed and sifted with anise seed, nutmeg
and salt. Add just enough extra flour to dough to roll very thin. Shape
with small, fluted cutter, and bake in a quick oven.
[Sidenote: _January_
_Fifth Sunday_]
(For recipe see Page 14.) Serve small cress or cucumber sandwiches with
this course.
To six cups of hot Consommé, (for recipe see Page 149), add Rice Balls.
PROCESS: Warm rice slightly and rub through a sieve, add flour,
seasonings, and bind together with egg. Measure mixture by the
teaspoonful. Roll in small balls. Poach until firm on outside in boiling
salted water. Remove with skimmer and drop into clear, hot soup.
Order a fresh tongue. Wash and put tongue in a kettle, cover with
boiling water; cook slowly two to three hours. Remove tongue from water,
peel off skin, and trim off roots. Place in Dutch oven or deep earthen
dish, and surround with one-half cup each carrot, turnip, celery and
onion, cut in half-inch dice, one green pepper (seeds and veins removed)
cut in shreds, and two sprays parsley. Pour over one quart of Brown
Sauce seasoned with one-half tablespoon Worcestershire sauce. (Stock in
which tongue was cooked may be used for making sauce.) Cover closely and
simmer slowly (do not allow sauce to boil) two hours or until tongue is
tender. Serve on hot platter. Surround with sauce.
(For recipe see Page 140.)
Peel the desired number of Bermuda onions. Cover with boiling water.
Heat to boiling point, boil five minutes, drain; repeat. Then cover with
boiling salted water, and cook until tender (from forty-five minutes to
one hour). Drain well. Dot over with bits of butter, finely chopped
parsley, and pepper. Serve hot.
Wash, scrape and cut celery in one-half inch pieces. Cook in boiling
salted water until tender; drain. (There should be two cups.) Cut a
slice from the stem end of one green or red pepper, remove the seeds and
veins. Parboil pepper eight minutes; drain and chop half the pepper
fine. Add to celery, and reheat in one cup of White Sauce.
Remove the peel from six large Florida Navel oranges. Separate the
sections, and peel off the membrane, keeping the pulp in its original
shape. Cut each section crosswise once. Dispose the orange cubes equally
in nests of lettuce-heart leaves. Arrange the halves of English walnuts
over these and marinate with French Dressing, using lemon and orange
juice, also some of the fine orange pulp, in place of vinegar. Sprinkle
with paprika.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add molasses; mix and sift flour, soda, spices
and salt; add alternately with milk, reserving enough flour to dredge
raisins and nut meats; mix well and turn in buttered molds. Steam three
hours. Serve with Brandy or Vanilla Sauce. (For recipe Vanilla Sauce see
Page 136.)
PROCESS: Scald a granite-ware coffeepot. Beat egg slightly and dilute
with one-half cup cold water, add to coffee and mix thoroughly. Turn
into coffeepot and add boiling water, stir well. Place on range; let
boil five minutes. If not boiled sufficiently, coffee will not be clear;
if boiled too long, the tannic acid will be extracted, causing serious
gastric trouble. Stuff the spout of pot with soft paper to prevent the
escape of aroma. Stir down, pour off one cup to clear the spout of
grounds, return to pot. Add remaining half-cup cold water to complete
the clearing process. Place pot on back of range for ten minutes, where
coffee will not boil. Serve immediately. If coffee must be kept longer,
drain from the grounds and keep just below boiling point.
_February_
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _February_
_First Sunday_]
Select heavy grape-fruit (weight means more pulp than rind). Chill, cut
in halves, and remove the sections of pulp, preserving the shape of
sections if possible. Remove the skins from Malaga grapes, cut in halves
lengthwise, remove seeds (there should be equal quantity of both
grape-fruit pulp and prepared grapes). Reserve the juice. Chill fruit
thoroughly, serve in tall stem glasses, add a little juice, sprinkle
each with a tablespoon bar sugar, and just before serving pour over each
portion one tablespoon Sloe Gin or "Sweet" Sherry Wine.
To five cups of Standard Broth add one cup of thick tomato purée. Reheat
and serve in bouillon cups.
PROCESS: Remove meat from bone and cut in inch cubes; brown richly one
third of meat in some of the marrow taken from bone. Cover remainder of
meat with cold water, let stand thirty minutes, then add browned meat
and rinse the pan in which meat was browned with some of the water.
Bring to boiling point and skim. Reduce heat and boil gently five hours;
stock should be reduced to three pints. Add seasonings the last hour of
cooking. Strain, cool, remove fat, and clear.
Clean a four-pound lake trout. Sprinkle inside with salt and pepper.
Fill with stuffing (recipe next page); sew. Spread with soft butter,
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Lay fish carefully in a well greased
paper bag, add one-fourth cup white wine, one-half onion finely chopped,
six fresh (or ten canned) mushrooms, cut in small pieces, and one-fourth
cup water. Press air from bag, fold open end over three times, fold
sides and corners close to fish, first moistening the bag on corners and
edges; lay in a dripping-pan and place in a hot oven. When bag is
browned evenly (not burned) reduce heat, and bake fish one hour. (Bag
will brown in ten minutes.) Remove from bag to serving platter and pour
contents of bag over fish. Serve with the following sauce:
PROCESS: Brown butter in a sauce-pan, add onion, carrot, ham,
peppercorns, cloves and marjoram, and cook five minutes. Add flour and
stir until flour is well browned; add gradually stock and wine, strain,
add garlic and simmer five minutes. Remove garlic and pour around Baked
Lake Trout. Sprinkle with parsley.
PROCESS: Melt butter in hot water; add remaining ingredients in the
order given. Mix lightly with a fork.
Look over, remove wilted leaves from sprouts, cover with cold water, let
soak one-half hour. Cook in boiling salted water until tender when
pierced with a wooden skewer. Drain thoroughly, serve with melted
butter, salt (if needed), and pepper, or reheat in thin Cream Sauce,
allowing one cup Sauce for each pint of sprouts.
Remove the imperfect outer stalks from the desired number of heads of
French Endive. If heads are large, cut them in halves lengthwise; if
small, separate the stalks. Wash, drain and chill. Serve with French
Dressing (see Page 83).
PROCESS: Wash rice; mix ingredients in the order given and pour into a
buttered baking dish; bake three hours in a slow oven, stirring three
times during first hour of cooking to prevent rice from settling. When
stirring the last time, add butter. Serve with Hard Sauce. (For recipe
see Page 161.)
[Sidenote: _February_
_Second Sunday_]
PROCESS: Cook macaroni in boiling salted water until tender. Drain and
pour over one cup cold water. With a sharp knife cut in thin rings.
Drain pimentos from the liquor in can, dry on a crash towel. Cut in
strips, then cut strips in small diamonds. Add both to Consommé, heat to
boiling point and serve in cups.
Peel off the outer skin from a breast of lamb, remove bones, stuff, (see
Page 36), shape in a compact roll and sew. Spread with salt pork fat,
sprinkle with salt, pepper and dredge with flour. Sear the surface over
quickly in hot salt pork fat, then place in the oven. Let cook one hour
and a half, basting often with fat in pan. Serve with French Fried Sweet
Potatoes and Currant Jelly Sauce. Garnish meat with sprays of fresh
mint.
To Brown Sauce (for recipe see Page 82) add one-half cup black or red
currant jelly whipped with a fork, one teaspoon lemon juice and a few
gratings of onion. Heat to boiling point, boil three minutes and serve
in sauce boat. Onion may be omitted.
PROCESS: Melt butter in hot water, add to bread crumbs, toss lightly
with a fork. Add remaining ingredients in the order given. If desired
moister, increase the quantity of hot water.
Peel cold, boiled sweet potatoes and cut lengthwise in slices one-half
inch thick. Arrange in layers in a well-greased quart baking dish. Cover
each layer generously with brown sugar and dots of butter, a sprinkle of
salt and pepper. Continue until dish is full. Add one cup hot water and
bake in hot oven until liquor is "syrupy" and potatoes are brown on top.
Remove the strings and cut beans diagonally in one-half inch pieces.
Wash and cook in boiling water from one to three hours, adding salt the
last half hour of cooking. Drain and reheat in White Sauce or dress with
melted butter, pepper and more salt if needed. If canned beans are used
(and they would be in some localities at this season of the year) turn
them from the can into sauce-pan and reheat them in their own liquor.
Drain and dress them with melted butter, salt, and pepper.
Use only the center of a firm head of white cabbage. Shred it very fine
and cover with ice water until crisp. Drain thoroughly and mix with one
medium-sized, thinly sliced Spanish onion. Mix with either French or
Cream Salad Dressing (for recipe see Page 105).
PROCESS: Mix and sift the dry ingredients in the order given; rub in
Cottolene with tips of fingers; add beaten egg to milk and add slowly to
first mixture stirring constantly, then beat until dough is smooth.
Spread dough evenly in a shallow, square layer cake pan to the depth of
one inch. Core, pare and cut apples in eighths, lay them in parallel
rows on top of dough, pressing the sharp edge into the dough half the
depth of apples. Sprinkle sugar and cinnamon over top. Bake in hot oven
twenty-five to thirty minutes. Serve hot with butter as a luncheon dish,
or as a dessert for dinner with Lemon Sauce.
PROCESS: Mix arrowroot, sugar and salt, pour on boiling water slowly,
stirring constantly. Cook over hot water twenty minutes, stirring
constantly the first five minutes, afterwards occasionally. Remove from
range. Add lemon juice, rind, and butter in small bits. Beat well and
serve hot.
[Sidenote: _February_
_Third Sunday_]
PROCESS: Cut leeks and celery in thin slices crosswise and sauté in two
tablespoons butter eight minutes (without browning), stirring
constantly. Turn milk into double boiler, add leeks and celery; cover
and cook until vegetables are tender (about forty-five minutes). Parboil
potato cubes in boiling salted water ten minutes. Melt remaining butter
in a sauce-pan, add flour, stir to a smooth paste, remove from range and
pour on slowly some of the milk until mixture is of the consistency to
pour. Combine mixtures, add seasonings, and cook in double boiler until
potatoes are tender. Turn into hot soup tureen and sprinkle with
parsley.
Have meat cut from "little pig." Wipe and follow directions for roasting
Loin of Pork. (See Page 173.)
Wipe, pare and core six or eight tart apples. Place them in sauce-pan,
add just enough water to prevent burning; add three or four cloves and
half a dozen Cassia buds. Cook to a mush. Pass through a sieve; return
to sauce-pan, add three-fourths cup sugar and cook five minutes,
stirring constantly. Cool and serve.
Remove seeds and veins and parboil one mild green pepper eight minutes.
Chop fine, add to Mashed Potatoes.
Pick over and wash two cups white beans; cover with two quarts cold
water and let soak overnight; drain and place them in a stew-pan, cover
with two quarts cold water, add one small carrot cut in quarters, one
medium-sized onion cut in half, two sprays parsley and one-quarter pound
of lean salt pork, one-half tablespoon salt; cover and cook slowly until
beans are tender (about two hours). Remove vegetables, drain beans. Chop
the pork and mix with beans.
Scrape and wash the tender hearts of crisp celery, cut in one-inch
pieces; cut pieces in straws lengthwise; there should be two cups. Add
one cup blanched and shredded almonds, mix well and marinate with French
Dressing and let stand one hour. Drain and arrange in nests of heart
lettuce leaves, sprinkle with the rings of Spanish onion thinly sliced
(using the heart rings). Mask with Mayonnaise or with Boiled Salad
Dressing.
Bake the half of a Hubbard squash, scoop out the pulp, rub through a
strainer. (There should be one and one-half cups.) Add one cup hot milk,
one-half cup sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon ginger,
one-fourth teaspoon nutmeg and one egg well beaten. Mix well. Line a pie
pan with Plain Paste, put an extra rim of pastry around edge of pie,
flute rim and turn in mixture. Bake thirty minutes in a moderately hot
oven.
[Sidenote: _February_
_Fourth Sunday_]
Menu
PROCESS: Cook the first six ingredients together twenty minutes. Rub
through a purée strainer, keep hot. Melt butter in a sauce-pan, add
flour and stir to a smooth paste, let cook one minute; dilute with
tomato mixture to the consistency to pour. Combine mixtures and season
with salt, a few grains cayenne and a grating of nutmeg. Reheat and
serve with crisp, toasted Saratoga Wafers.
Clean, singe, draw and truss in the same way as for roasting chicken.
Stuff if desired. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Lay very thin slices of
fat salt pork over the breast, wings and legs. Place in a covered
roasting pan, pour in one-half cup water, set in oven and roast from
forty-five minutes to one hour (continue cooking if liked well done),
turning so as to brown evenly. (When the roasting pan is used there need
be no basting.) If roasted in an open dripping-pan, baste every ten to
fifteen minutes. The flesh of this bird is dry and is therefore best
cooked rare. Serve as roast chicken. Prepare sauce same as Giblet Sauce.
(See Page 154.)
The young, tender stalks of rhubarb need only be washed, tops and root
cut off, then cut in one-inch pieces (without peeling). Put in a
sauce-pan, add just enough water to prevent burning. Cook slowly until
soft. Add sugar to sweeten to taste, cook five minutes, cool and turn
into serving dish.
Select six medium-sized, rather flat potatoes. Wash, pare and trim them
square, then cut lengthwise in slices one-eighth of an inch thick (no
thicker). Wash and dry them on a towel. Drop a few at a time into hot
Cottolene (not smoking hot), fry them four minutes, turning them
occasionally. Remove with skimmer to a croquette basket, let stand five
minutes while the fat is heating. When hot enough to brown an inch cube
of bread in forty seconds, place the basket containing potatoes into
fat, shake constantly and fry two minutes. Drain on brown paper. Repeat
process until all potatoes are used. Sprinkle with salt and dispose
around roasted Guinea Fowl.
Pare a medium-sized egg-plant, cut in very thin slices, sprinkle with
salt and pile in a colander. Cover with a plate and weights to press out
the acrid juice; let stand two hours, sprinkle with pepper, dredge with
flour, and sauté in hot butter until crisp and a golden brown. Mix
together one-half teaspoon each finely chopped parsley and chives,
one-fourth teaspoon very finely chopped chervil and sprinkle lightly
over egg-plant as soon as crisp. Arrange on hot serving dish and serve
at once.
Remove the outer green leaves from two medium-sized heads of crisp head
lettuce. Wash carefully, without separating the leaves; drain dry in a
wire basket or on towels. Cut heads in halves lengthwise and arrange in
salad bowl. Set aside in a cool place, and, just before serving, pour
over French Dressing. Serve at once.
PROCESS: Pare the rind as thinly as possible from two oranges; add to
water and sugar, and cook twenty minutes. Remove rind, add fruit juice,
strain, cool and freeze. Serve in stem glasses.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring constantly, add
chocolate, milk and eggs. Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt;
add to first mixture. Add more flour if necessary. Dough should be soft.
Toss on a floured board, roll out to one-half inch thickness, shape with
a doughnut cutter, sprinkle with granulated sugar and bake ten to twelve
minutes in a hot oven.
_March_
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _March_
_First Sunday_]
Menu
PROCESS: Pick off the leaves of cress and chop fine. Cut onions in thin
slices. Cook watercress and onions in butter five minutes (without
browning), add flour and salt, stir until smooth, then pour milk on
gradually, stirring constantly. Cook over hot water twenty minutes. Add
beef extract, stir until dissolved; season with Worcestershire sauce and
a few grains cayenne. Strain into hot soup tureen, add whipped cream and
sprinkle with finely chopped parsley.
Cut stale sandwich bread lengthwise in one-inch thick slices and remove
crusts. Cut slices in bars one inch wide and six inches long. Bake in a
hot oven until delicately browned. Turn them so that crusts may brown
evenly on all sides. Serve hot and crisp.
Six pounds of veal cut from the breast. Wipe, and skewer meat into
shape, sprinkle with salt, pepper, dredge with flour and cover top with
thin slices of fat salt pork. Lay in a dripping pan and strew cubes of
pork around meat. Place in a very hot oven for the first half hour,
basting every ten minutes with fat in pan, then reduce heat and cook
meat slowly until tender, allowing twenty minutes to pound; continue
basting. The last half hour of cooking remove salt pork, dredge meat
again with flour, and brown richly. Remove meat to hot serving platter,
surround with Spanish Rice and prepare a Brown Sauce from some of the
fat in pan. (See Page 82 for Brown Sauce.)
Cover one cup of rice with cold water; heat to boiling point and boil
two minutes. Drain in a strainer, rinse well with cold water and drain
again. Cut four slices of bacon in shreds, crosswise, and cook until
crisp. Remove bacon, add to rice. Cut one-half of a green or red pepper
in shreds and cook in bacon fat until soft, then add pepper and bacon
fat to rice. Cover with three cups of well-seasoned chicken broth,
season well with salt, cover and let cook until rice has absorbed broth
and is tender, then add one cup of thick tomato purée and two-thirds cup
of grated cheese. Mix well with a fork and let heat through over boiling
water. Serve with roast veal or breaded veal cutlets.
Wash and cook in boiling water, drain and plunge into cold water, when
the skins may be easily rubbed off. Mash and rub through a sieve. Season
with salt, pepper, butter and moisten with a little cream or milk.
Reheat over hot water and serve.
Drain sliced pineapple from the liquor in the can. Dry on a crash towel.
Dip in batter and fry a golden brown in deep hot Cottolene. Drain on
brown paper, sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve with some of the
liquor from which it was drained. This may be slightly thickened with
arrowroot, allowing one teaspoon arrowroot to each cup of liquor.
PROCESS: Mix flour, sugar and salt. Add milk slowly, stirring constantly
until batter is smooth; add Cottolene and white of egg. Batter must be
smooth as cream.
Select a small, solid head of red cabbage; remove the wilted leaves. Cut
in quarters and cut out the tough stalk and the coarse ribs of the
leaves. Cover with cold water and let soak until cabbage is crisp;
drain, then shave in thin shreds, and mix with the hearts of two or
three heads (according to their size) of crisp celery, cut in small
pieces crosswise. Add one medium-sized Spanish onion, finely chopped,
and dress with Boiled Salad Dressing. Serve in lettuce heart leaves or
in nests of cress.
PROCESS: Mix and sift the dry ingredients (reserving two tablespoons
flour), rub in Cottolene with tips of fingers. Sprinkle two tablespoons
flour over cleaned currants, add to first mixture; add milk gradually,
beat well and turn into a buttered mold; cover and steam two hours.
Serve with Dried Apricot and Hard Sauce.
Wash and pick over dried apricots, soak over night in cold water to
cover. Cook until soft and quite dry, in the water in which they were
soaked. Rub through a sieve and sweeten to taste. Reheat, and drop a
spoonful on each portion of pudding, place a small star of Hard Sauce in
center and serve.
[Sidenote: _March_
_Second Sunday_]
Menu
Dress, clean and cut up a chicken (a year old). Put in a stew-pan, cover
with boiling water. Add one small onion sliced, two stalks celery cut in
pieces, two sprays parsley and one-half teaspoon peppercorns. Cover and
cook slowly until tender. Add one tablespoon salt the last hour of
cooking. Remove chicken, strain liquor and remove some of the fat if
necessary. Thicken the stock with two-thirds cup of flour diluted with
sufficient cold water to pour readily. Return chicken to "gravy," heat
to boiling point. Drop dumplings on top of chicken, cover stew-pan with
a towel, replace the cover and steam dumplings twelve minutes. Arrange
chicken on hot serving platter, surround with dumplings, sprinkle
lightly with finely chopped parsley.
PROCESS: Sift together twice, flour, baking powder and salt, rub in
Cottolene with tips of fingers. Add milk gradually, mixing it in with a
knife. Drop from tip of spoon on top of meat, an inch apart; cover
closely and steam twelve minutes.
Select silver-skin onions of a uniform size; peel and cover with boiling
water, bring to boiling point, drain and repeat. Then cover with boiling
water, season with salt and cook until onions are tender (from
forty-five to sixty minutes). Drain and add one-half cup hot cream (to
eight onions). Sprinkle with black pepper and serve.
Soak two cups dried sweet corn overnight, in cold water to cover. In the
morning place on range and simmer slowly until corn is tender and water
is absorbed, add more water if necessary. Add one-fourth cup butter, two
teaspoons sugar, one-fourth cup cream or milk, salt and pepper. Be
careful that corn does not scorch.
Wash thoroughly, trim off roots, drain, and chill watercress. Arrange
nests of the cress on individual salad plates. Cut four hard-cooked eggs
in halves crosswise, in such a manner that tops of whites will be
notched. Remove yolks, rub through a sieve, season with salt, pepper and
moisten with Boiled Salad Dressing to the consistency to handle. Shape
in balls the original size, dip in finely chopped parsley and replace in
whites. Dispose one "cup" in each nest, and just before serving marinate
with French Dressing.
PROCESS: If rhubarb is young and tender it need not be peeled. Cut the
stalks in half-inch pieces before measuring. Mix sugar, flour, egg, salt
and nutmeg. Add to rhubarb, toss together until ingredients are well
mixed. Turn into a pie pan lined with paste, heap rhubarb well in
center, cover with a top crust and bake thirty-five minutes in a hot
oven. (When rhubarb is older it may be scalded before using.)
[Sidenote: _March_
_Third Sunday_]
Menu
Prepare the grape fruit in the usual way. Chill; just before serving
place five Blue Point oysters in the cavity made by removing the tough
portions in each half grape fruit. Season with lemon juice, salt,
paprika and one or two drops of Tobasco sauce. Serve on beds of shaved
ice. Garnish with foliage.
Clean and split a three-pound whitefish. Lay, skin side down, on a hot,
well-greased oak plank (one and one-half inches thick and two or more
inches longer and wider than the fish). Brush fish over with soft butter
and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Surround fish with a border of coarse
salt to prevent plank from burning. Bake twenty-five minutes in a hot
oven, or place plank on broiler and broil twenty minutes under the gas
flame. Remove to table covered with a sheet of brown paper, scrape off
salt, wipe the edges of plank with a piece of cheese cloth wrung from
hot water; spread fish with Maître d'Hôtel Butter; surround with a
border made of hot mashed potato, passing it through pastry bag and rose
tube. Garnish with sprays of parsley and sliced lemon. Serve
immediately.
Select firm, not over-ripe tomatoes. Cut in halves crosswise. Sprinkle
with salt, pepper and a grating of onion; dredge with flour and sauté in
melted butter; brown first on cut side, then turn and finish cooking on
the other. When soft, but not broken, pour over thin cream to almost
cover. Let simmer until cream is slightly thickened. Remove to hot
serving dish and pour cream around.
Cut the hearts of celery in one-fourth inch pieces, there should be two
cups. Add one cup of Alabama pecan nut meats broken in quarters and one
cup white cabbage cut in very fine shreds. Moisten with Cream Dressing.
Serve on a bed of cress.
PROCESS: Mash and rub the egg yolks through a sieve, add seasonings
(except cayenne), then vinegar and chives. Whip cream until stiff, and
add a little at a time to first mixture, beating constantly. When all is
used, sprinkle in a few grains cayenne or paprika.
_Process_: Cook raisins in boiling water to cover, until tender, drain,
and mix with sugar, grated rind, flour and salt. Cool slightly. Turn
into pie-pan lined with Plain Paste, dot over with butter and pour over
water. Cover with top crust made of Rich Paste and bake thirty minutes
in a moderate oven.
[Sidenote: _March_
_Fourth Sunday_]
Menu
Select a lean ham, weighing from twelve to fourteen pounds, cover with
cold water or equal parts of water and sweet cider and let soak (skin
side up) over night. Drain, scrape and trim off all objectionable parts
about the knuckle. Cover flesh side with a dough made of flour and
water. Place in a dripping pan, skin side down. Bake in a hot oven until
dough is a dark brown; reduce heat and bake very slowly five hours. Ham
enclosed in dough needs no basting. Remove dough, turn ham over and peel
off the skin. Sprinkle ham with sugar, cover with grated bread crumbs
and bake twenty to thirty minutes. Remove from oven and decorate with
cloves; place a paper frill on knuckle, garnish with sprays of parsley
and lemon cut in fancy shapes. Serve hot or cold.
PROCESS: Cook crumbs, horseradish and milk twenty minutes in double
boiler. Add seasonings, vinegar and lemon juice slowly, stirring
constantly. Add grated onion, reheat and serve.
PROCESS: Mix ingredients in the order given. If mixture is too dry add
hot milk. Mold in cork-shape croquettes, roll in crumbs, then in egg,
again in crumbs, and fry in deep hot Cottolene. Drain on brown paper and
arrange around Baked Ham.
Cut three large grape fruit in halves crosswise, remove the pulp and
keep in its original shape. Arrange in nests of white crisp lettuce
heart leaves, dividing pulp in six portions. Strew one cup of English
walnut meats, broken in fourths, over grape fruit. Marinate with French
Dressing, but with less salt and using paprika in place of cayenne, and
lemon and grape fruit juice in place of vinegar.
PROCESS: Add flour and seasonings to cheese, fold in whites of eggs,
shape in small balls. Roll in fine cracker crumbs and fry a golden brown
in deep hot Cottolene. Drain on brown paper.
If rhubarb is pink, young and tender, simply wash and cut in one-half
inch pieces; there should be two and one-half cups. Cover with boiling
water and heat to boiling point; boil five minutes. Do not allow it to
lose its shape. Drain off all the juice, sprinkle rhubarb with
three-fourths cup sugar. Sift over two tablespoons flour and one-fourth
teaspoon salt, dot over with one tablespoon butter and a grating of
orange rind. Mix well and turn into a pie pan lined with Rich Paste.
Arrange strips of pastry, lattice-work fashion, across the top of pie
and bake thirty minutes in a moderate oven.
_April_
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _April_
_First Sunday_]
Menu
Pour six cups of hot, well-seasoned Chicken Bouillon into hot bouillon
cups. Drop on top of each portion one tablespoon whipped cream
delicately seasoned with salt, pepper and a few grains cayenne. Sprinkle
cream with paprika or finely chopped chives.
Dress, singe, clean and cut two young chickens in pieces for serving.
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour, brown richly in
equal parts of Cottolene and butter, turning often that pieces may be
evenly browned. Then cover with boiling water to which add a bit of bay
leaf, one-half teaspoon peppercorns, a spray of parsley, six slices
carrot and three slices onion. Cover and simmer until chicken is tender
(from one to one and one-quarter hours). Remove chicken from stock,
cover and keep warm; strain stock; there should be two cups. Melt four
tablespoons butter in a sauce pan, add four tablespoons flour, stir to a
paste, then gradually pour on the two cups hot stock, stirring
constantly; let simmer ten minutes. Remove from range, add one cup of
hot cream and the yolks of two eggs slightly beaten. Reheat chicken in
sauce (do not allow sauce to boil after adding yolks). Serve with
Waffles.
PROCESS: Cook spinach in the usual way. Cook the bacon with spinach to
give it flavor. When spinach is tender, remove bacon, drain spinach and
chop fine. Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Add butter, mix well and
pack into an oval mold. Keep hot over hot water, cut eggs in halves
lengthwise, remove yolks and rub through a sieve. Add ham, salt, pepper,
parsley and onion juice. Moisten with Cream Salad Dressing to bind
mixture together. Refill halves of eggs with this mixture, heaping it
pyramid-like. Turn mold of spinach on hot serving dish and surround with
stuffed eggs.
Buy very select prunes for this purpose (tins holding one or two pounds
are best), cook prunes in the usual way, letting the liquor evaporate
during the latter part of cooking. Prunes should not be as well done as
when serving them as sauce. Drain prunes from the liquor and chill them.
Remove the stones carefully, cut prunes in five pieces lengthwise. Cut
pecan nut meats in four pieces lengthwise. Mix prunes and nut meats,
sprinkle with salt and paprika. For one-half pound prunes and one-fourth
pound shelled nut meats allow one cup whipping cream. Whip cream until
solid, season with one-half teaspoon each salt and paprika; add two
tablespoons lemon juice and one and one-half tablespoons Sherry wine
slowly, while beating constantly. Mix two-thirds of the cream with the
prunes and nuts. Arrange the heart leaves of lettuce on cold, individual
salad plates, pile some of the mixture in each and mask with remaining
whipped cream. Arrange three pieces of prunes on top of each portion,
radiating from center, and place a cherry or strawberry on top of each.
(For recipe, see page 168.)
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add one cup sugar gradually, stirring
constantly. Beat yolks thick and light, add remaining cup sugar
gradually, continue beating. Combine mixtures. Mix and sift flour,
baking powder and salt. Add to first mixture alternately with milk. Add
vanilla and fold in the whites of eggs beaten stiff and dry. Turn into
two well-greased, square cake pans and bake fifteen minutes in a
moderate oven. Spread one layer thickly with Boiled Frosting, sprinkle
heavily with fresh grated cocoanut, cover with remaining layer. Spread
top and sides with frosting, and sprinkle with cocoanut before frosting
glazes.
PROCESS: Mix sugar, cream of tartar and water in a sauce pan. Place on
range and stir until mixture begins to boil. When syrup drops from the
wooden spoon thick like honey, remove from range and add eight
tablespoons of the syrup to the stiffly beaten whites of eggs, beating
constantly. Return remaining syrup to range, continue cooking until
syrup spins a thread at least five inches in length. Pour syrup in a
thin stream onto first mixture and beat until cool and slightly glazed
on side of bowl. Spread thickly on cake.
[Sidenote: _April_
_Second Sunday_]
Menu
Cut stale white bread in one-third inch slices, trim off crust and cut
slices in crescents or triangles--then sauté a golden brown in butter.
Spread with Anchovy paste or with French mustard, then arrange flaked
smoked sturgeon over canapés. Sprinkle thickly with finely chopped
olives and pimentos. Garnish each with a rolled fillet of Anchovy.
Dispose each canapé on a bread and butter plate covered with a paper
doily and garnish with sprays of parsley.
PROCESS: Wash and scrub clams with a stiff brush, changing the water
until no sand is seen in bottom of vessel. Put in a kettle, add cold
water, cover closely and bring water gradually to boiling point, steam
until all the shells are opened. Remove clam with shells, strain broth
through double cheese-cloth, season and serve hot in hot bouillon cups.
Drop a spoonful of whipped cream on top of each service and sprinkle
with paprika.
Wash the fish thoroughly; lay in a dripping pan, flesh side down; cover
with cold water and let soak one hour. Drain; cover with hot water, let
soak fifteen minutes. Drain again and wipe dry; brush over with soft
butter and broil fifteen minutes over a slow fire or some distance from
the flame if cooked with gas. Remove to hot serving platter and spread
with Maître d'Hôtel Butter.
Select smooth, large, uniform sized potatoes; wash and scrub them
carefully with a brush. Bake and cut them in halves lengthwise; scoop
out the pulp from shells, being careful not to break them. Press pulp
through a ricer; season with salt, pepper, butter and hot cream. Add one
teaspoon finely chopped parsley (to five potatoes), whip mixture until
fluffy, refill shells with mixture, using pastry bag and rose tube.
Place in oven until heated through. Dispose around Finnan Haddie,
interspersed with sprays of parsley.
Select a small, firm head of white cabbage; cut in quarters, remove the
tough stalk and shave crosswise as fine as possible. Put cabbage in a
large frying pan, cover with water, cover closely and cook until cabbage
is tender (from forty to eighty minutes). Season with salt the last
fifteen minutes of cooking. Drain and add one-third to one-half cup of
butter, toss cabbage until well buttered, sauté until some of the
cabbage is delicately browned. Season with pepper, and add vinegar to
taste. Serve hot.
PROCESS: Melt butter in a saucepan; add flour mixed with seasonings,
stir to a smooth paste and add gradually scalded milk, stirring
constantly. Add grated cheese and when cheese is melted remove from
range; add yolks of eggs and continue beating, then cut and fold in the
whites of eggs. Turn mixture into a well-greased, one-quart baking dish
and bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. Serve at once.
Process: Sift together flour, salt and baking powder. Rub shortening in
with tips of fingers. Add cream, mix with a knife to a soft dough. Turn
on a floured board, knead slightly and divide the dough into two equal
parts. Pat and roll each piece to one-half inch thickness; lay one piece
in a buttered jelly cake pan, brush over with soft butter and place
remaining piece on top. Bake in a hot oven fifteen minutes. Remove from
oven; invert cake on a hot serving platter. Remove bottom layer (which
is now the top). Spread with soft butter and add a layer of berries
prepared as directed hereafter. Sift generously with bar sugar, replace
remaining cake, cover with berries, sprinkle with sugar, mask with
whipped cream sweetened and flavored with orange extract.
Wash two quarts strawberries; hull and cut each berry in half. Prepare a
syrup by boiling together two cups sugar and one-half cup water four
minutes, cool and pour syrup over berries, or sprinkle raw sugar over
berries and let stand one hour. Lift the berries from syrup and place
between layer and on top of short cake. Strain syrup into a pitcher or
bowl and pass with each portion of short cake.
[Sidenote: _April_
_Third Sunday_]
Menu
Wipe and trim chops, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and dredge with flour.
Dip in egg diluted with cold water or milk (allowing two tablespoons to
each egg), then in fine bread crumbs, repeat if not well coated with
crumbs. Fry in deep hot Cottolene about ten minutes. Drain on brown
paper and serve in a border of hot Mashed Potatoes with Green Pepper, or
in a nest of Green Peas dressed with Maître d'Hôtel Butter.
Cook two tablespoons of chopped, lean, raw ham in one-fourth cup butter
until lightly browned, add one-fourth cup flour, one-half teaspoon salt,
and stir until well blended, then add one and one-half cups of Brown
Stock and one cup of Chili Sauce. Heat to boiling point, stirring
constantly. Reduce heat and simmer ten minutes. This sauce may be
strained or served without straining. Care must be taken that ham is not
overcooked.
PROCESS: With a sharp knife open and peel down one section of each
banana, carefully loosen the pulp from the rest of the skin; remove pulp
and scrape lightly with a silver knife, removing all the coarse threads.
Replace the pulp in its original shape in the skins. Arrange the bananas
in an agate dripping pan and bake in a moderate oven until the skins are
black and the pulp is soft (from ten to fifteen minutes). Remove pulp
from skins to serving platter, being careful to preserve their shape.
Curve them slightly and pour over
Pick over raisins, cover them with water and cook until raisins are
tender. Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt, add slowly to raisins and water,
stirring constantly. Cook slowly twenty minutes; add butter, lemon juice
and wine. Reheat and serve.
Select small potatoes of uniform size. Wash, pare and parboil in boiling
salted water ten minutes. Drain dry and fry a golden brown in deep hot
Cottolene (time required about twelve minutes). Fat should not be hot
enough to brown potatoes until the last five minutes of cooking,
otherwise potatoes will not be cooked throughout. Drain on brown paper,
sprinkle with salt and serve at once.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add molasses, milk and egg. Mix and sift the
dry ingredients, add dates and stir into first mixture, beat thoroughly.
Turn into a buttered tube mold, cover and steam two and one-half hours.
Serve with Sherry Sauce (recipe Page 130).
[Sidenote: _April_
_Fourth Sunday_]
Menu
PROCESS: Cook pepper and onion in butter five minutes. Add flour, stir
until well blended and delicately browned, then add gradually stock and
tomato pulp; let simmer twenty minutes. Rub through a sieve and season
highly with salt, pepper, and cayenne or Tobasco. Before serving add
Worcestershire, horseradish and rice.
Wipe a two-pound slice of halibut. Arrange six or eight thin slices of
fat salt pork in bottom of dripping pan, slice an onion thinly over
pork, add a bit of bay leaf and arrange halibut over onion. Spread
halibut evenly with a butter paste made of four tablespoons butter
worked to a cream with three tablespoons flour. Season with one-half
teaspoon salt and a few grains cayenne. Over butter paste sprinkle
thickly-buttered cracker crumbs, and arrange alternately strips of
pimento and thin slices of bacon over crumbs. Cover with a buttered
paper and bake slowly one hour in a moderate oven. Remove paper the last
fifteen minutes of cooking to brown the crumbs and bacon delicately.
Remove to hot serving platter and garnish with shredded potatoes, sliced
lemon and parsley.
Cut cold, boiled potatoes in one-fourth inch cubes. There should be
sufficient to fill three cups. Reheat potatoes in two cups of thin white
sauce, turn into hot serving dish. Remove the shells from four
hard-cooked eggs, cut them in halves crosswise, remove the yolks. Cut
whites in rings and arrange rings around edge of potatoes; press the
yolks through a ricer over potatoes. Sprinkle the rings with finely
chopped parsley. Serve at once.
PROCESS: Add dry ingredients, sifted together, to corn; add yolks well
beaten; then fold in whites beaten until stiff. Fry as griddle cakes; or
dip a tablespoon into deep hot Cottolene, drain well, then take up a
spoonful of the corn mixture, drop into hot Cottolene, pushing it off
spoon into hot fat with a spatula. Fry a golden brown. Drain on brown
paper and serve immediately.
Remove the wilted and coarse outside leaves from one small, solid head
of white, new cabbage (Southern), cut off stalk, cut head in quarters,
cut out stalk from each quarter and chop cabbage very fine. Add one
medium-sized Bermuda onion, finely chopped. Cover with ice water and let
stand until crisp. Drain thoroughly and mix with Relish Dressing. Serve
in lemon baskets, sprinkle with finely chopped chives, green pepper or
parsley.
PROCESS: Mix the ingredients, except celery seed, in the order given.
Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly until mixture coats the
spoon; strain and add celery seed. Chill and add to cabbage.
Wash and trim off ends of two pounds tender rhubarb; do not peel. Cut
rhubarb in one-inch pieces. Put into baking dish and sprinkle generously
with sugar, add just enough water to prevent rhubarb from burning. Cover
and bake in oven very slowly until tender but not broken. (Slow cooking
preserves its color.) One cup of Sultana raisins may be cooked with
rhubarb. They must, however, be first picked over, stems removed, then
covered with boiling water, drained, then covered again with boiling
water and cooked until soft. Arrange a layer of rhubarb in baking dish,
then a sprinkle of raisins and sugar and thus continue until all are
used. Finish cooking as directed in the foregoing. Serve very cold.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, yolks of eggs beaten
until thick and light, flour sifted with baking powder, alternately with
milk. Fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Turn one-third of this
batter into a bowl and add to it molasses and spices. Pour into
well-greased pan, alternating light and dark mixtures to give it the
"marbled" appearance.
Bake forty to forty-five minutes in a moderate oven.
_May_
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _May_
_First Sunday_]
Menu
PROCESS: Wash, scrape and cut asparagus in one-inch pieces, reserve the
tips. Cover with boiling salted water, cook ten minutes; drain, add
stock and onion and cook until tender, rub through a sieve. Melt butter
in a sauce pan, add flour, stir to a smooth paste; remove from fire and
add first mixture slowly, stirring constantly. Season with salt and
pepper, add hot milk and cream, continue stirring. Cook tips in boiling
salted water until tender, drain. Turn soup into hot soup tureen, add
tips and serve. If canned asparagus is used, drain from liquor, rinse,
reserve tips and follow directions given in the foregoing.
Remove bones from a fresh, three-pound bluefish. Place on a
well-buttered fish sheet, laid in a dripping pan. Sprinkle with salt and
paprika. Cook in a hot oven twenty-five minutes, basting often with
melted butter or sweet dripping. Remove to hot serving platter and pour
a Creole Sauce around fish. Sprinkle fish with buttered crumbs, set
platter on a board and place in oven to brown crumbs. Garnish with
slices of lemon dipped in chopped parsley.
(For recipe see Page 122.)
Wash, pare and cook (almost soft) one-half dozen medium-size potatoes.
Drain perfectly dry, cool and cut them in quarters, trim them in the
shape of small gherkins. Wash them in cold water, then put them in a
frying pan, reheat in boiling water. Drain and add four tablespoons
butter; shake the pan until potatoes are well buttered and a golden
brown color. Remove carefully with a skimmer to hot serving dish, and
sprinkle with finely chopped parsley.
Cut three thin slices of bacon in shreds crosswise, try out in a frying
pan. Cook until tender two cups green, stringless beans and three or
four small new onions, in boiling salted water. Drain and add to bacon,
mix well, add salt (if necessary) and pepper; turn into a hot serving
dish.
(For recipe see Page 26.)
PROCESS: Cook water and sugar together three minutes. Cool and add to
cream and milk. Add a sprinkle of salt. Turn into freezer and when half
frozen add lemon juice and strawberry pulp. Finish freezing. Let stand
an hour or two to ripen. Serve in cone shape and place a large, unhulled
strawberry in top of each cone.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring constantly. Mix
and sift flour, corn starch, baking powder and salt; add alternately to
first mixture with milk, add vanilla, then cut and fold in whites of
eggs. Turn mixture into two well-greased, brick-shaped bread pans and
bake forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Spread with Maple Frosting
(see Page 103) and stick with blanched and shredded almonds slightly
toasted.
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _May_
_Second Sunday_]
Menu
PROCESS: Cook spinach in water thirty minutes. Drain, chop, and rub
through sieve. Scald milk with onion and bay leaf. Melt Cottolene in
sauce-pan, add flour, stir to a smooth paste, pour on slowly scalded
milk (first removing onion and bay leaf), stirring constantly. Add
seasonings, spinach pulp; cook five minutes and serve with cream,
whipped stiff. Sprinkle each portion with finely chopped parsley.
Clean, stuff and truss six _young_ pigeons. Arrange them in a stew pan
or Dutch oven. Add one quart boiling water; add three blades celery, cut
in pieces, and three slices of onion, a small bit of bay leaf and
one-half teaspoon peppercorns. Cover closely and simmer (in the oven if
Dutch oven is used) slowly, until birds are tender (about two hours
according to age of birds). Remove from casserole, cool and spread with
soft butter. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and dredge with flour. Strain
liquor from casserole. Try out fat salt pork in vessel, and brown birds
richly in the pork fat, turning often that they may be evenly browned.
Make a sauce of the strained stock. Make shallow, boat-shape croutons
of stale bread, fry them a golden brown in deep hot Cottolene, drain on
brown paper and arrange a bird in each boat. Garnish with parsley.
PROCESS: Mix ingredients in the order given and fill body of pigeons.
Untie the bunches, wash and remove scales. Cut off the hard part of
spears as far up as they will snap. Retie, and cook in boiling salted
water until tender (about fifteen minutes), leaving the tips out of
water the first ten minutes of cooking. Drain, remove strings. Arrange
in hot serving dish and pour over two tablespoons melted butter (for
each bunch), sprinkle with salt and pepper.
Pick over and wash in several waters or until no sand is left in bottom
of bowl, one-half peck spinach. Drain and cook in its own juice and the
water that clings to the leaves (if spinach is old, cook it in plenty of
water), until soft. Drain dry as possible and chop finely. Season with
salt, pepper and Tarragon vinegar. Cut bacon in shreds crosswise, then
cut shreds in small bits. Sauté them until delicately browned and crisp,
skim them from the fat, add them to spinach, add one tablespoon of bacon
fat. Butter lightly small Dairole molds and pack solidly with spinach.
Chill, unmold and arrange on thin slices of cold, boiled ham, tongue or
Bologna sausage, trimmed in circular pieces a trifle larger than mold of
spinach. Arrange each portion in a nest of parsley or cress, and fill
depression on top of spinach with Mayonnaise or Sauce Tartare (for
recipe see Page 84).
[Sidenote: _May_
_Third Sunday_]
Menu
(For recipe see Page 66.)
Wipe liver and skewer into shape, if necessary. Draw small lardoons
through the liver, in parallel rows, leaving each lardoon extend
one-half inch above surface. Place liver in a casserole or Dutch oven,
surround with remnants of lardoons. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and
dredge with flour. Surround with one-third cup each of carrots, onion
and celery, cut in small cubes; add one-half teaspoon peppercorns, six
cloves, one spray parsley, a bit of bay leaf and two cups hot Brown
Stock or water. Cover closely and cook in a slow oven two hours. Remove
cover the last half hour of cooking that liver may brown richly. Remove
liver to serving platter, set aside in a warm place. Strain liquor in
casserole and use for making a Brown Sauce. Pour sauce around liver and
serve. Braised liver may be served cold, thinly sliced.
PROCESS: When steaming or boiling the rice, allow one tablespoon of salt
for seasoning. Butter a baking dish and cover with a layer of rice, dot
over with some of the butter. Sprinkle with a thin layer of cheese and a
slight sprinkle cayenne; repeat alternate layers until rice and cheese
are used. Pour on milk to half the depth of baking dish, cover with
buttered cracker crumbs and bake in oven until cheese melts and crumbs
are brown.
Scrub, scrape and cut carrots in small cubes. Wash, pare and cut
purple-top turnips the same. (There should be one and one-half cups of
each.) Cover each (in separate vessels) with boiling water and cook
until tender; add salt the last half hour of cooking. Drain well, toss
together and reheat in one and one-half cups Thin White Sauce.
Cook asparagus in the usual way, drain and slip three or four spears
through an onion ring just large enough to hold them. Arrange these
fagots in nests of crisp lettuce heart leaves. Just before serving pour
over French Dressing to which has been added one tablespoon of finely
chopped chives. A band of red or green pepper may be used in place of
the onion ring. Canned asparagus should first be drained from the liquor
in the can then rinsed with cold water. Chilled and served as directed
in the foregoing.
Line a deep, perforated pie tin with Plain or Rich Paste. For filling,
beat three eggs slightly, add one-fourth cup sugar, one-eighth teaspoon
salt, one-eighth teaspoon nutmeg, and pour over slowly two cups scalded
milk, stirring constantly. Bake in a hot oven at first, to set the crust
or rim, then reduce the heat afterwards; as this is a combination of
eggs and milk it should be finished in a slow oven.
[Sidenote: _May_
_Fourth Sunday_]
Menu
(For recipe see Page 149.)
Select five or six pounds from the plate or the brisket; wash carefully
in cold water, drain; place in kettle and cover with boiling water, let
boil five minutes and--if very briny--drain, rinse off scum with hot
water and again cover with boiling water; heat to boiling point and
simmer until meat is tender (about six hours). Remove beef from liquor,
keep covered in a warm place. Skim off some of the fat from liquor. Add
carrots washed, scraped and cut in quarters. Let cook fifteen minutes,
then add small white onions and turnips pared and cut in quarters, one
head white cabbage cut in quarters (stalk cut out). Wash, pare and cut
uniform-sized potatoes in quarters, parboil five minutes, then drain and
add to other ingredients. Cook beets in a separate vessel. When
vegetables are soft, arrange meat in center of hot serving platter and
surround with carrots, turnips, onions and cabbage. Sprinkle vegetables
with finely chopped parsley, serve beets in separate dish. Pass
horseradish, mustard and vinegar.
Gather the dandelion when young and tender. That which is cultivated is
well bleached and very tender. Wash thoroughly in several waters, cut
off the roots and outside leaves. Drain dry on a cloth or in a wire
basket. Arrange in salad bowl. Cut thin sweet bacon in tiny shreds
crosswise and sauté in frying pan until crisp; sprinkle bacon over
dandelion. To the fat in pan (there should be one-third cup), add
one-fourth cup vinegar diluted with two tablespoons water. Heat to
boiling point and pour over dandelions; toss leaves with a fork until
well mixed with dressing; serve at once.
FROZEN STRAWBERRIES--No. 2
PROCESS: Wash and hull strawberries (about three boxes); sprinkle with
one cup sugar, cover closely and set aside in a cool place for two
hours. Mash and squeeze berries through cheese cloth. Mix remaining cup
sugar and salt with cream; turn into freezer and, when half frozen, add
strawberries and finish freezing. Serve with Strawberry Sauce.
PROCESS: Make a syrup by boiling water with sugar three minutes (after
mixture begins to boil), cool slightly and add strawberry pulp. Chill
thoroughly and serve.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring constantly. Mix
and sift flour, baking powder, spices and salt; add to first mixture
alternately with milk. Cut and fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs.
Bake in two well-greased, square, layer cake pans. Spread with a thick
layer of raspberry between layers. Cover top with frosting or dredge
with powdered sugar.
[Sidenote: _May_
_Fifth Sunday_]
Menu
PROCESS: Heat water to boiling, season with salt and add rice, onion and
green pepper (discarding seeds and veins). Cook until rice is soft; rub
through a sieve. Melt butter in a saucepan, add flour, stir to a smooth
paste, add cream slowly, stirring constantly. Add seasonings and cook
over hot water ten minutes. Combine with rice mixture, continue cooking
five minutes. Turn into hot soup tureen and sprinkle over with parsley.
Select a flank steak weighing about two and one-half pounds. Have the
butcher peel off the superfluous fat and tissue and score both sides
diagonally in opposite directions. Remove the steak from paper when it
comes from market and lay it flat on meat board, sprinkle with salt and
pepper. Spread over it a thin layer of stuffing, (see Page 154), roll
lengthwise, very compactly, sew the overlapping edge securely, also the
ends. Sprinkle roll with salt, pepper and dredge with flour. Place meat
in pan with enough Cottolene to brown it richly, turning roll until it
is richly browned all over. Then remove to Dutch oven or casserole;
rinse dripping pan with a little boiling water, pour over meat and
surround with two cups stewed and strained tomato pulp, one onion thinly
sliced, one green pepper shredded (after removing seeds and veins), two
sprays parsley, the half of a small bay leaf and two tablespoons
Worcestershire sauce. Cover closely, place in oven and cook meat very
slowly about three to four hours. Remove meat to serving platter. Dilute
four tablespoons flour with cold water to the consistency to pour, add
to sauce in pan, stir until well blended, season with salt and pepper;
let simmer ten minutes, then strain around meat. Garnish with sprays of
parsley or cress.
Remove the roots, carefully pick over (discarding all tough and wilted
leaves) and wash dandelion leaves in several waters; to the last water
add salt to free leaves from insects and vermin. It will require one
peck of leaves to serve a family of six. Cook leaves in plenty of
boiling salted water until tender; drain at once and chop fine. Dress
with butter and pepper; cut thin slices of bacon in shreds crosswise,
try it out and pour over dandelions. (There should be one-third cup
bacon fat.) The shreds of bacon are an attractive garnish; hard-cooked
eggs may also be used as a garnish. Cut them in eighths or rings.
Vinegar is sometimes added. Serve hot.
(For recipe see Page 59.)
_June_
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _June_
_First Sunday_]
Menu
Add to Consommé small green peas and tiny cubes of cold cooked breast of
chicken. (For recipe for Consommé see Page 149.)
Split crackers, arrange them in a dripping pan, place in a moderate oven
until crisp and delicately browned.
Prepare loin or French chops as for broiling. Dip in crumbs, egg
(diluted with cold water, allowing two tablespoons water to each egg),
add in crumbs, and fry in deep hot Cottolene six to eight minutes. Drain
on brown paper and spread with Maître d'Hôtel Butter.
Scrape off the skin, remove the "eyes" with a sharp pointed knife and
scrub them with a vegetable brush, rinse thoroughly and put in sauce
pan, add boiling water to cover; season with salt, cover and cook until
soft, drain. If small, serve whole; if large, cut them in one-half inch
cubes and reheat in Chive Sauce.
To Cream Sauce (see Page 151) add one tablespoon finely chopped Chives.
Cook peas in boiling water. Use just enough water to prevent them from
burning. Add salt fifteen minutes before removing them from fire. Season
with butter and pepper.
Remove stones from red and pink Ox-heart cherries and cut them in halves
lengthwise. Remove the pulp from oranges and cut in inch cubes; peel
bananas and cut in one-half inch cubes. Use equal quantities of each and
marinate with French Dressing No. 2. Serve in nests of heart lettuce
leaves and mask with Mayonnaise.
FRENCH DRESSING No. 2
PROCESS: Put seasoning in small bowl, add oil slowly, stirring
constantly; add lemon juice slowly, continue beating until all is used.
Chill, beat again and turn over fruit.
PROCESS: Put seasoning in bowl, add egg yolks and mix thoroughly, add
oil drop by drop, until four tablespoons have been added, after which
larger quantities may be added. Stir constantly. As mixture thickens,
add a teaspoon lemon juice or vinegar. Continue adding oil and lemon
juice or vinegar alternately until all is used, stirring constantly. All
ingredients should be very cold. Set bowl in which dressing is made in a
bowl of crushed ice.
Pick over, stem and pit cherries (there should be two cups when pitted).
Heat to boiling point in their own juice, then chill them. Line a
perforated pie pan with Rich Paste, moisten the rim with cold water and
lay around a strip of pastry one inch wide, press lightly. Brush the
pastry over with slightly beaten white of egg. Sweeten cherries to
taste, add a few grains of salt and turn into lined pie pan. Sift over
two tablespoons flour, moisten rim and cover with top crust, flute the
edges and bake in hot oven for the first ten minutes, then reduce heat,
continue baking for twenty-five minutes. Serve hot with cheese, cut in
strips one-fourth inch thick and wide by two and one-half inches long.
Make tea and chill. Serve in glasses filled with crushed ice, adding (if
desired) one tablespoon lemon juice to each glass. Pass fine granulated
(Bar) sugar. Place each glass on a small plate.
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _June_
_Second Sunday_]
Menu
Cut stale bread in one-quarter inch slices, shape with small biscuit
cutter (2 inches in diameter). Spread lightly with French or German
mustard, sprinkle thickly with grated cheese, sprinkle cheese with
finely chopped olives. Place a small stuffed olive in center of each.
Dispose on a small plate covered with a paper doily. Garnish with sprays
of parsley and serve as an "appetizer."
Remove the fat and stringy parts, also marrow-bone, from two pounds
round steak. Pass through the meat grinder twice; add the marrow taken
from bone, one tablespoon green pepper finely chopped, one tablespoon
onion finely chopped, season well with salt and the beaten yolks of two
eggs or one whole egg slightly beaten; add one-half cup of soft bread
crumbs that have been soaked in cold water thirty minutes and wrung dry
in a double cheese cloth. Mix ingredients thoroughly with the hand.
Shape in a compact roll of uniform thickness. Lay thin slices of salt
pork or bacon in the bottom of a dripping pan, set the roast on them;
lay thin slices of salt pork over the meat and place in a hot oven.
After the first eight minutes reduce the heat and baste with the hot
fat in the pan; let cook about thirty minutes, basting every ten
minutes. The roast should be richly browned on the outside and a
delicate pink inside. Serve surrounded with Tomato, Brown or Creole
Sauce.
PROCESS: Melt butter in sauce pan, add onion and cook until delicately
browned; remove onion, and cook butter until richly browned, stirring
constantly; add flour sifted with seasonings, stir to a paste and
continue browning. Then pour on stock, slowly stirring until smooth and
glossy. Onion may be omitted.
Select uniform-sized new potatoes, wash and scrub them with a brush,
pare and parboil ten to fifteen minutes (according to the size) in
boiling salted water. Drain and place them around rack in dripping pan
in which meat is roasting and cook until tender. Baste occasionally with
fat in pan when basting roast.
Cook one and one-half cups of peas in just enough water to prevent them
from burning. Add salt fifteen minutes before removing them from range.
Wash, scrub and scrape new carrots and cut them in one-fourth inch cubes
(there should be one and one-half cups); cook in boiling salted water
until tender. Drain and mix with peas. Reheat them in one and one-half
cups of Cream Sauce (for recipe see Page 151).
Arrange individual nests of Garden Cress on six chilled salad plates.
Cut eight oranges in halves, remove the pulp, discarding veins and
sections. Leave the pulp in the original shape as taken from the
sections; divide the pulp evenly between the six nests. Serve with
French Dressing and sprinkle each portion with paprika and a few grains
cayenne. Omit the garlic when using fruit.
PROCESS: Rub the mixing bowl with a bruised clove of garlic; add salt,
pepper, paprika and oil; beat until ingredients are thoroughly blended,
adding vinegar slowly meanwhile. A piece of ice put into bowl while
stirring will aid in chilling the mixture.
PROCESS: Mix the ingredients in the order given. Turn in a lined pie
pan, heaping currants in center; cover with top crust, press and flute
the edges. Bake as other berry pies. Serve hot. Sprinkle with powdered
sugar.
Boil two cups sugar and one cup water until a rich syrup is formed. Add
one cup of lemon juice and two cups of Cherry juice, left over when
canning cherries. (This left-over juice may be brought to the boiling
point, skimmed and turned into sterilized fruit jars, sealed and stored
as canned fruit and may be used for punch or pudding sauce.) Add two
cups cold water. Fill a claret pitcher with cracked ice; add mixture.
When serving, place a thin slice of orange, three or four strawberries
and three pitted California cherries in each glass, fill three-fourths
full with mixture. Serve very cold.
[Sidenote: _June_
_Third Sunday_]
Menu
Heat six cups of Chicken Consommé to the boiling point. Poach the yolks
of six eggs in hot water until firm; remove from water with a skimmer.
Place one yolk in each Bouillon cup and pour on hot consommé. Sprinkle
slightly with finely chopped chives or parsley.
Select fresh perch of medium size. Clean, bone and wipe dry as possible.
Sprinkle with salt, pepper, dip in flour, egg, and crumbs (be sure fish
are well coated with crumbs). Lay three at a time in a croquette basket
and fry a golden brown in deep hot Cottolene. Cottolene should not be so
hot as to brown fish at once, as fish will not be cooked through. (Time
required for frying small fish is from four to six minutes.) Drain on
brown paper and serve with Sauce Tartare. Garnish with parsley, lemon
slices and radishes cut to imitate roses.
To one cup of Mayonnaise Dressing add one finely chopped shallot, one
tablespoon each finely chopped capers, sweet gherkins, olives, and
one-half tablespoon each finely chopped parsley and fresh tarragon. Mix
well and keep cool until ready to serve.
Wash, pare and cut potatoes in one-eighth inch slices. Cut slices in
tiny straws. Wash carefully in cold water until water ceases to be
cloudy. Let stand one hour in cold water. Drain and dry on towels. Fry a
golden brown in deep hot Cottolene. Drain on brown paper, sprinkle with
salt and serve around fried perch.
Prepare the asparagus in the usual way, cut off the tops one inch in
length. Cook in as little boiling salted water as possible. Drain and
dress with a Béchamel Sauce. Serve in Bread Croustades (small round,
square, or diamond-shaped molds cut through thick slices of bread).
PROCESS: Melt butter in a saucepan, add flour, stir to a smooth paste;
add stock slowly, stirring constantly; add cream and continue stirring.
Bring to boiling point, remove from range and add egg yolk slightly
beaten. Add seasonings. Beat until smooth and glossy. Keep hot over hot
water. Do not allow sauce to boil after adding yolk of egg.
Pick over, wash thoroughly young tender lettuce; cut off the roots and
drain. Beat one-half cup heavy cream until solid. Add two tablespoons
vinegar diluted with one tablespoon cold water. Add one tablespoon
finely chopped chives, one-half teaspoon salt and one-eighth teaspoon
pepper. Pour over lettuce, mix well and serve cold.
Make a baking powder biscuit dough as for Cream Fruit Rolls. (See Page
180.) Roll to one-half inch thickness. Drain pitted cherries from the
juice; strew them over dough, sprinkle with sugar and dredge lightly
with flour. Roll like a jelly roll, moisten and press the overlapping
edge and close the ends as securely as possible. Bake in a hot oven,
twenty-five minutes, basting three times with some of the cherry juice
sweetened to taste, or tie loosely in a floured cloth and cook in
boiling water two hours, or steam in a steamer one hour. Serve on a hot
platter with Cherry Sauce.
PROCESS: Mix the ingredients in the order given, cook slowly until
reduced to a syrup. Strain through a sieve and serve hot with Cherry
Roly-Poly or Dumplings.
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _June_
_Fourth Sunday_]
Menu
(For recipe see Page 66.)
Cut stale bread in one-third inch slices; remove crusts and cut in
one-third inch strips, cut strips in one-third inch cubes. Fry them a
golden brown in deep hot Cottolene. Drain on brown paper and sprinkle
lightly with salt.
Order a shoulder and fore-leg of lamb, boned. Wipe, stuff and truss in
shape. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and dredge with flour. Place on rack
in dripping pan, put in hot oven and baste with dripping melted in one
cup hot water, as soon as flour begins to brown; continue basting every
fifteen minutes until meat is done, which will require about two hours;
add one cup of stock to pan while meat is cooking. When richly browned
cover closely and finish cooking.
To carve a boned leg of lamb, cut in thin slices across the grain,
beginning at top of shoulder. When trussed in shape meat looks like a
goose without wings or legs.
(See recipe Page 154 for stuffing, adding 3/4 teaspoon poultry
seasoning.)
PROCESS: Dilute vinegar with cold water, add sugar and stir until sugar
is dissolved, pour over mint (there should be four tablespoons of mint),
place on back of range and infuse for one-half hour.
Prepare potatoes as for New Potatoes with Chive Sauce (see recipe Page
78), omitting the Chives. Cook one cup of new peas until tender, in as
little boiling salted water as possible. Drain; add to potatoes. Reheat
potatoes and peas in Cream Sauce.
Wash and pick over Swiss Chard. Cook in boiling salted water, using just
enough water to prevent Chard from burning. Drain and chop fine. Arrange
in a mound on a chop platter, surround (crown fashion) with
"hard-boiled" eggs cut in halves lengthwise, having cut side out. Cut a
slice off the large end of each egg so that they will stay in place. Cut
five slices of bacon in narrow strips crosswise. Try out one-third cup.
Add one-fourth cup vinegar, diluted with one-fourth cup hot water, pour
while hot over the Swiss Chard, scattering the scraps of bacon over top
of mound.
PROCESS: Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt; rub Cottolene in
lightly with the tips of fingers; add milk and mix to soft dough. Put
sugar, cherries, drained from juice, and lemon juice in bottom of
well-greased baking dish. Cover with dough, place in steamer, set over
kettle of boiling water, lay a crash towel over steamer, replace cover,
and steam pudding forty-five minutes. Serve with cherry juice, thickened
with arrow root and sweetened.
_July_
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _July_
_First Sunday_]
Menu
Place a four-pound fowl in stock pot and a small knuckle of veal; add
four quarts of cold water and heat slowly to boiling point. Skim, reduce
heat and let simmer five hours. Do not allow liquid to boil as it will
destroy its gelatinous properties, and the stock will be turbid. The
last hour of cooking add one-third cup each celery, carrot and turnip
cut in small dice, one-third cup sliced onion, one teaspoon peppercorns,
one tablespoon salt, three sprays thyme, one spray marjoram, two sprays
parsley, one-half bay leaf. Remove fowl and knuckle; strain soup through
double cheese cloth, cool quickly, and remove all fat; clear. Fill
Bouillon cups three-fourths full and chill. This should be a clear,
savory jelly.
After straining the stock through double cheese cloth, remove all fat
and put the stock into a four-quart stew-pan. Place on range and allow
the white and shell of one egg for each quart of stock. Beat the eggs
slightly and crush shells in small bits, add slowly to stock, stirring
constantly but slowly until the boiling point is reached; let boil two
minutes. Reduce the heat so that stock barely simmers twenty minutes,
skim and strain through double cheese cloth placed over fine soup
strainer. If stock to be cleared is not sufficiently seasoned, add more
seasoning before clearing.
Wipe three pounds of lean veal, discarding all skin and tissue. Pass
meat through the meat-chopper twice, with one-half pound of salt pork;
add six crackers rolled, one-fourth cup cream, juice of one small lemon
(about two tablespoons), one tablespoon salt, one-half tablespoon black
pepper, onion juice to taste. Mix thoroughly and pack solidly in a
granite, brick-shaped bread pan, spread top evenly and brush with
slightly beaten white of egg. Bake in a moderate oven three hours,
basting often with one-fourth cup of pork fat or dripping diluted with
one-fourth cup boiling water. Prick surface with a fork that fat may
penetrate meat. Chill, remove to serving platter, surround by any good
vegetable salad. If served hot, surround with Tomato, Creole or
Espagnole Sauce. This may be prepared Saturday.
Marinate cold, cooked, stringless beans with French Dressing. There
should be enough beans to make a generous border around a cold veal
loaf. Sprinkle beans thickly with small onions thinly sliced and the
rings separated. Garnish edge of dish with sprays of parsley and
Nasturtium blossoms. The finely chopped seed-cells may also be sprinkled
over beans and is quite an addition.
Wash and pare the desired number of uniform-sized potatoes. Slice thinly
(using slaw cutter) into a bowl of cold water. Let stand several hours,
changing the water often or until it is quite clear. Drain and drop them
into a kettle of boiling water; allow them to boil just one minute.
Drain quickly and cover with cold water. Drain from cold water and dry
between towels. Fry a few at a time in deep hot Cottolene, keeping them
moving with the skimmer. Drain on soft brown paper and sprinkle with
salt.
Wash the small new beets and cook in boiling salted water until tender.
Drain and cover with cold water. Rub off the skins and slice them or cut
them in cubes. Reheat them in
Melt two tablespoons butter in a sauce-pan; add three tablespoons flour,
stir to a smooth paste and add gradually, while stirring constantly, one
cup boiling water. Boil two minutes, then add four tablespoons hot cream
and four tablespoons vinegar (if vinegar is too acid use two tablespoons
each of vinegar and water), season with salt and pepper.
PROCESS: Soak gelatine in cold water, then dissolve it in boiling water;
add sugar and stir occasionally until mixture begins to thicken, then
add wine and lemon juice. Chill a pint mold in ice water (a fancy mold
is attractive for this purpose). Separate the figs, slice them thinly
and dip some of them in the jelly and use them for decorating the mold;
then fill the mold with alternate layers of sliced figs and the mixture,
allowing the jelly to "set" each time before adding the slices of figs.
Chill thoroughly. Unmold jelly on serving dish and surround with whipped
cream sweetened and flavored as desired. Use pastry bag and rose tube
for this purpose.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring constantly, add
eggs, one at a time and beating each in thoroughly before adding
another. Pass nuts and raisins through meat chopper, then mix with flour
sifted with baking powder, salt and spices; add alternately to first
mixture with milk, beating constantly. Turn mixture into a well-greased
tube pan and bake thirty-five to forty minutes in a moderate oven.
Spread with
PROCESS: Boil sugar and water together as for Boiled Frosting (see
recipe Page 56). Pour slowly onto beaten whites of eggs, beating
constantly, continue beating until frosting is nearly cool. Put pan
containing frosting in a larger vessel of boiling water, place on range
and cook until mixture granulates around sides of pan, stir constantly
while cooking. Remove from hot water and beat until frosting will keep
its shape when dropped from spoon. Add nut meats and flavoring. Spread
on cake, using wooden spoon to give surface a wave-like appearance.
Follow directions for making Boiled Coffee, using four cups boiling
water. Chill and serve in tall glasses filled with cracked ice; add
cream and sugar.
[Sidenote: _July_
_Second Sunday_]
Menu
To six cups Consommé (for recipe see Page 149) add French string beans
cut in diamonds, carrots cooked and cut in tiny fancy shapes (using
French vegetable cutters), and French peas. Serve with toasted Cheese
Crackers.
Clean a four-pound Black Bass, pickerel or haddock, sprinkle with salt,
stuff and sew with No. 8 cotton thread. Cut four or five diagonal gashes
on each side of backbone and lay in strips of fat salt pork. Have the
gashes on one side come between gashes on the other. The fish may be
skewered in the shape of the letter S, or placed in an upright position
on a well-greased fish sheet, laid in the bottom of a dripping-pan.
Brush over with melted butter and sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge
with flour and strew small pieces of fat pork around fish. Bake one hour
in a hot oven, basting every ten minutes, first with melted butter or
dripping, then with fat in dripping-pan as it is tried out. Dispose on
hot serving platter, pour around Egg Sauce and garnish with sprays of
parsley.
PROCESS: Mix crumbs, add seasoning, melt butter and hot water, add to
crumbs, toss lightly with a fork and add onion juice to taste.
To Drawn Butter Sauce add one-half teaspoon Anchovy Essence and two
hard-cooked eggs cut in thin slices. Sprinkle all with finely chopped
parsley. (For Drawn Butter Sauce see Page 92.)
PROCESS: Mix and sift the dry ingredients; add cream, beaten egg and
Cottolene, beat thoroughly; bake in a well-greased, shallow pan, in a
hot oven, twenty-five minutes; five minutes before removing from oven,
brush over with melted butter or milk to give it a richer color. Serve
with baked or broiled fish.
Select smooth, uniform-sized new potatoes; wash, scrape and cover with
cold water. Let stand one hour; drain and place in steamer, cover
closely and steam until soft. Remove to serving dish; dot over with bits
of butter and sprinkle at once with coarse salt and finely chopped
parsley.
Select a medium-sized, firm cauliflower. Trim off leaves, cut off stalk,
and soak one hour (head down) in cold salt water to cover. Cook (head
up) until soft but not broken (about thirty minutes) in boiling salted
water. Drain and place carefully in a buttered, shallow baking dish,
pour over one and one-half cups of Cheese Sauce, sprinkle with buttered
crumbs and place in oven until crumbs are browned. Serve in baking
dish.
PROCESS: Melt butter in a sauce-pan, add flour, mixed with seasonings,
stir to a smooth paste; let cook one minute, stirring constantly. Pour
on gradually hot milk and beat until smooth and glossy. Add cheese and
when melted pour over cauliflower.
Arrange a nest of heart lettuce leaves in salad bowl; place in center
three peeled and chilled tomatoes, cut in quarters; thinly slice a mild
onion, separate the rings and strew them over tomatoes, sprinkle all
with green and red peppers finely chopped. Serve with French Dressing.
PROCESS: Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt; rub in Cottolene
with tips of fingers, add milk gradually, stirring constantly; turn on a
floured board, knead slightly, then roll out to one-half inch thickness;
place berries in center mixed with one-half teaspoon salt and two
tablespoons sugar; fold dough over, pinch the edges together to form a
large ball; lift carefully into a well-greased, two-quart pail, cover
closely and steam one and one-half hours. Serve with
PROCESS: Beat the whites of eggs until stiff, add sugar gradually,
beating constantly. Add hot cream slowly, continue beating. Add Sherry
wine and a sprinkle of nutmeg. Milk may be used in place of cream, if
the latter is not available.
[Sidenote: _July_
_Third Sunday_]
Menu
Prepare a tomato sauce; there should be two cups. Strain this while hot
through one thickness of cheese cloth into six cups of hot Bouillon.
Reheat and serve in Bouillon cups with
Sprinkle Butter Thins lightly with grated cheese, seasoned with salt and
a few grains cayenne. Place in the oven until crackers are crisp and
cheese is melted.
Wash and clean the tongue, cover with boiling water, to which add
one-third cup each carrots, turnips and onion cut in dice; two sprays
each parsley and thyme, one-half teaspoon peppercorns and one-half dozen
cloves. Simmer until tongue is tender. Let cool in liquor in which it
was cooked, remove the skin and brush with melted butter. Cover with
fine, buttered bread crumbs, after arranging in dripping pan. Bake
twenty minutes, basting often with hot stock or port wine. Chill and
slice thinly; garnish with triangles of buttered toast sprinkled with
finely chopped parsley.
PROCESS: Scald, peel and chop tomatoes; then add remaining ingredients
in the order given. Place on range, bring to boiling point and cook
slowly until thick. Add more salt and sugar if necessary. Turn into
sterilized fruit jars, seal and store. Serve with meats, fish, etc.
Cut balls from raw potatoes, using a French vegetable cutter. There
should be three cups. Cook potato balls with three slices of onion in
boiling salted water until tender. Drain, chill and marinate with French
Dressing, then cover with Boiled Dressing. Arrange in a mound on serving
platter, surrounded with a border of nasturtium blossoms and leaves.
Sprinkle top with finely chopped chives.
PROCESS: Melt butter in sauce-pan; add flour mixed with seasonings, add
egg yolks slightly beaten and vinegar and water. Cook over hot water
until mixture thickens. Cool. Whip cream and fold into mixture. Beat
well, chill and serve with potato salad.
Cut firm, ripe tomatoes in halves, crosswise. Rub each half lightly with
a clove of garlic, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and fine, buttered bread
crumbs mixed with a tablespoon of sugar. Place in a well-buttered
broiler and broil five minutes. Remove carefully to a well-buttered
shallow ramekin, dot over with bits of butter, finish cooking in the
oven, and serve.
Line a deep, perforated pie tin with Plain Paste; brush over with white
of egg slightly beaten. Fill with three cups blueberries mixed with one
cup sugar, two tablespoons flour, one tablespoon butter cut in bits,
one-eighth teaspoon salt, one tablespoon lemon juice. Wet edges, cover
with crust, flute the rim and bake thirty-five minutes in a hot oven at
first to set the crust, then reduce the heat and finish baking.
Rub to a paste one roll Neufchatel cheese; to this add one-half cup
chopped pecan meats and one-half teaspoon finely chopped, mild red
pepper; season with salt and roll with the "butter paddles" in small
balls the size of Queen olives. Serve with berry or cherry pies.
PROCESS: Scald enameled coffee pot. Beat white of egg slightly. Dilute
with one-half cup cold water, mix with coffee, turn into coffee pot and
add boiling water, stir until well mixed. Place on range and let boil
five minutes. Stir down and pour some into a cup to clear the spout of
grounds. Return to pot and add remaining half cup of cold water. Place
on back of range for ten minutes, where it will keep hot but not boil.
After removing coffee to back of range, put milk into double boiler and,
when scalded, pour the two together in another scalded coffee pot. Chill
and serve.
[Sidenote: _July_
_Fourth Sunday_]
Menu
Scoop balls out of the center of watermelon using French potato cutter.
Pour over Sherry Sauce and place them carefully in a freezer, packed in
salt and ice, let stand until thoroughly chilled (about one and a half
hours). Serve with Sherry Sauce in tall champagne glasses.
Cook one cup sugar with one-fourth cup of water three minutes. Cool
slightly and add one-half cup Sherry, three tablespoons Sloe gin and a
sprinkle of salt. Chill and pour over watermelon balls.
To one quart of Chicken Consommé add one tablespoon each of cooked
carrot and turnip, cut in small fancy shapes (using French vegetable
cutter for this purpose), small peas, French beans and asparagus tips.
Heat these vegetables in a small quantity of hot consommé; drain, place
them in hot soup tureen and pour over boiling consommé.
Cut stale bread in one-third inch slices. Stamp out circles three inches
in diameter; with a smaller cutter (size of top of pepper shaker) cut
out center, leaving rings about one-third inch wide. Brush with melted
butter, sprinkle lightly with salt and paprika, and brown delicately in
the oven. Serve in a circle overlapping each other on a plate covered
with a doily.
Clean and wash three calves' hearts; stuff and skewer into shape. Draw
small strips of salt pork (lardoons) through edges of hearts. Sprinkle
with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and brown well in hot Cottolene,
with two slices onion, four slices carrot, one blade celery cut fine,
two sprays parsley, two small bits bay leaf, three cloves and one-half
teaspoon peppercorns. When hearts are richly browned, remove to Dutch
oven, casserole or deep baking dish. Add two cups Brown Stock, cover
closely and cook slowly in the oven until tender (about two hours),
basting six times while cooking.
Cut three slices of stale bread one-third inch thick, shape with large
round cutter; with a small cutter remove centers to form rings: brush
with melted butter and brown delicately in the oven. Arrange them on hot
serving platter, set a heart in each ring and surround with new carrots
and turnips cut Julienne style and cooked in boiling salted water until
tender. There should be one and one-half cups each. Drain and dress with
Maître d'Hôtel Butter.
PROCESS: Mix ingredients in the order given and season well with salt
and pepper.
Prepare two and one-half cups hot mashed potatoes. Add two and one-half
tablespoons butter, one-half teaspoon baking powder, season with salt
and pepper and moisten with one-half cup hot cream or milk, beat
thoroughly. Add the whites of two eggs beaten until stiff. Pile lightly
in a buttered baking dish and bake until well puffed and browned.
Mix two cups of new cabbage, finely shredded, with one-half cup of
celery cut in small pieces and one mild onion finely chopped. Add
one-half tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce to one cup of boiled salad
dressing and mix thoroughly with cabbage. Chill. Serve in onion cups or
in nests of crisp lettuce leaves.
PROCESS: Mix sugar with berries and turn into bowl in which white of egg
is slightly beaten, then mash berries and sugar and mix thoroughly with
egg. Beat with a wire whip until mixture is stiff to stand. Pile lightly
on a chilled serving dish and surround with macaroons. Serve with
PROCESS: Beat yolks until thick and light, add one half the sugar
gradually, beating constantly: beat whites until stiff, gradually adding
the remaining half cup sugar. Combine mixtures, add wine and beat
thoroughly.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, beating constantly. Mix
and sift flour, baking powder and salt, add alternately to first mixture
with water, add nut meats and extract; cut and fold in whites of eggs.
Bake in a sheet thirty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Spread with
PROCESS: Boil sugar, water and cream of tartar together until it spins a
thread from tip of spoon. Pour slowly in a fine stream on the beaten
white and continue beating until of the consistency to spread over cake.
(To get the exact proportion of sugar, weigh one level cup of granulated
sugar to ascertain by weight how much Maple sugar is required for this
amount of water and white of one egg. It will weigh about one-half
pound.)
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _July_
_Fifth Sunday_]
Menu
PROCESS: Cook the onion in butter five minutes (without browning), add
rice, lettuce finely chopped, and stock, cover and cook until rice is
soft; add hot cream, slightly beaten yolk of egg and seasonings. Do not
allow soup to boil after adding egg yolk. Discard outer leaves of
lettuce, using only the hearts for soup.
Disjoint a four- or five-pound fowl, cover with boiling water and let
simmer until tender, with one carrot sliced, one onion sliced, a blade
or two of celery broken in inch pieces, two sprays parsley and one-half
teaspoon peppercorns. Add one tablespoon salt the last hour of cooking.
Drain chicken from liquor, remove the skin and bones; strain liquor,
return to range and let simmer until reduced to one cup, strain and
reserve. When the meat is nearly cold, cut it in small cubes or chop
fine; remove all fat from liquor, reheat and add chicken, stirring it
slowly, season with salt and pepper if necessary. Decorate a granite,
brick-shaped bread pan with "hard boiled" eggs cut in rings or fancy
shapes, over these pack the chicken mixture very carefully so as not to
disturb the decorations. Cover with a buttered paper, place a weight
over paper and let stand over night in a cold place. Serve with Tomato
Salad.
Wash garden cress and shake dry, arrange a bed on large oval platter,
discarding all coarse leaves and stems. Peel and chill five
uniform-sized tomatoes, cut a slice from the stem ends and scoop out the
pulp, invert tomato cups on a plate and set aside in a cool place. Chop
fine the solid pulp of the tomato with one chilled and pared cucumber,
add two tablespoons finely chopped chives, stir in one cup of Cream
Dressing and refill tomato cups with mixture heaping them in pyramids.
Dispose these tomato cups at intervals in cress border and place mold of
pressed chicken in center.
PROCESS: Mix ingredients in the order given, adding vinegar very slowly,
beating constantly. Cook in double boiler until mixture thickens;
continue beating, strain at once and chill.
Wash and pare potatoes of a uniform size. Slice on a corrugated
vegetable slicer, which is made for this purpose. Wash slices in cold
water, changing the water several times; then let stand several hours in
cold water. Drain and dry with crash towels. Fry a few at a time in deep
hot Cottolene, drain on brown paper, sprinkle with salt. Pile on a lace
paper doily in a fancy basket.
To two cups of cooked green corn, cut from the cob (or one can of corn)
chopped fine, add two eggs slightly beaten, one teaspoon salt,
one-eighth teaspoon pepper, one teaspoon sugar, two tablespoons melted
butter, and two cups scalded milk. Mix well and turn into a buttered
pudding dish; bake until firm in moderate oven.
PROCESS: Pare and stone choice, ripe peaches and rub the pulp through a
purée strainer; add sugar and lemon juice, turn into the can of freezer
packed in ice and salt (using three measures of crushed ice to one of
rock salt); add cream and freeze in the usual way.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring constantly. Melt
chocolate over hot water, add hot water specified in recipe and beat
immediately into creamed butter and sugar; add yolks of eggs beaten
until thick and light. Mix and sift flour, cinnamon, baking powder and
salt; add to first mixture alternately with milk, add vanilla. Cut and
fold in the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Bake in a shallow pan forty
to forty-five minutes. Cover with Boiled Frosting (for recipe see Page
56).
PROCESS: Follow recipe for making tea. Strain into pitcher over cloves,
chill, then pour into glasses filled with cracked ice. Sweeten to taste.
The flavor of tea is preserved and is much finer by chilling the
infusion quickly, before pouring over ice. Allow three cloves for each
glass. The large Penang cloves are the best.
_August_
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _August_
_First Sunday_]
Menu
Cut white bread in one-third inch slices; stamp out with heart-shaped
cutter; spread both sides thinly with butter, brown them delicately in
the oven. Mince Nova Scotia smoked salmon and moisten with Mayonnaise or
Boiled Salad Dressing. Spread each heart with mixture, dispose a dainty
border of finely chopped white of egg around each and tip it off with a
sprinkle of the yolk pressed through a sieve. Do not cover the salmon
entirely with the egg. Arrange canapés on small plates covered with a
lace paper doily; garnish each with a spray of parsley and serve as
first course.
Have fillets of beef cut one and one-half inches thick; shape in
circular forms. Broil ten minutes in a hissing, well-buttered frying
pan, turning every ten seconds for the first two minutes, that the
surface may be seared thoroughly, thus preventing the loss of juices.
Turn occasionally afterward. When half done season with salt, pepper,
reduce heat and finish cooking. Arrange on hot serving platter and
spread generously with soft butter. Pour over Sultana Sauce. (For recipe
see Page 61.)
Wash and pare one dozen small, uniform-sized potatoes; soak one hour in
cold water to cover. Drain, put in stew-pan and cover with one quart of
boiling water. Add two tablespoons butter and two teaspoons salt. Cook
until soft (but not broken), then drain. Return to stew-pan. Add
one-third cup butter, one and one-half tablespoons lemon juice, and
one-eighth teaspoon paprika. Cook four or five minutes, shaking the pan
occasionally. Place in hot serving dish and sprinkle with one tablespoon
chopped parsley.
Cut one slice bacon in shreds crosswise, using the shears for this
purpose. Cook bacon with one-fourth cup butter about ten minutes,
without scorching bacon. Remove scraps of bacon, add two cups fresh
peas, one dozen small onions and a sprig of mint. Cook until peas and
onions are soft, adding one-fourth cup boiling water to prevent
scorching. Beat one egg yolk slightly, add one-third cup cream and one
head of lettuce cut in quarters (use lettuce hearts), season with salt
and pepper. Let boil up once and serve.
Separate the heart leaves of two solid heads of lettuce. Wash, drain and
chill; arrange them in a nest in salad bowl. Sprinkle between and over
leaves four tablespoons finely chopped peppergrass and small, thinly
sliced onions, separating the rings. Marinate with French Dressing;
chill and serve.
PEACH ICE CREAM No. 2
PROCESS: Pare and pit peaches; stew until soft, rub through a sieve.
Then mix ingredients in the order given. Add peach pulp and freeze. Let
stand two hours before serving.
(For recipe see Page 56.)
[Sidenote: _August_
_Second Sunday_]
Menu
(For recipe see Page 90.)
Singe, wipe and with a sharp pointed knife (a boning knife) split the
broiler down the back the entire length, beginning at back of neck. Lay
open and remove entrails, etc., remove ribs and breast-bone, then cut
the tendons at joints. Rub bird over with soft butter, sprinkle with
salt and place on a well-greased broiler or in a well-greased wire
broiler. Cook twenty-five minutes under a gas flame or over glowing
coals, turning often. Baste bird over several times with melted butter
if it appears dry. When evenly browned, remove to well-greased dripping
pan, spread again with soft butter, cover closely, and bake until tender
at the joints. Serve with
Reduce one small can of tomatoes by slow cooking to a thick pulp; when
strained there should be two tablespoons. To three-fourths cup
Mayonnaise Dressing add three-fourths tablespoon finely chopped capers,
one teaspoon finely chopped parsley, two teaspoons each finely chopped
gherkins and olives, one teaspoon finely chopped onion or chives. Add
tomato pulp, mix well and keep in a cool place until ready to serve.
To three cups of hot riced potatoes add three tablespoons butter, one
teaspoon salt, the beaten yolks of three eggs and enough hot milk to
allow the mixture to pass readily through the pastry-bag with rose tube
attached. Shape as roses on a buttered tin sheet, brush over lightly
with egg slightly beaten and diluted with one tablespoon milk, and brown
delicately in oven.
Fill pastry bag with potato mixture. Hold the bag upright with tube
pointing downward. Guide tube with left hand and press out potato with
the right, making a circular motion. When roses are the desired size
press the tube gently into mixture and withdraw it quickly to stop the
flow and give the pyramid a pointed finish. Sweet potatoes may be
prepared in the same manner.
(For recipe see Page 63.)
Select a firm, white cauliflower, remove leaves and cut off the stalk.
Soak (head down) in cold salt water to cover. Drain and cook (head up)
in boiling salted water to cover until tender but not broken apart.
Drain well and dispose on shallow serving dish. Pour over one and
one-half cups Béchamel Sauce (see Page 85). Sprinkle with finely chopped
parsley.
Select a large, firm head of lettuce. Remove all wilted leaves. Separate
the heart leaves sufficiently to wash them thoroughly. Drain, arrange
leaves on shallow serving plate, keeping them in their original shape if
possible. Sprinkle over all finely shredded red and green prepared
peppers. (To prepare peppers, plunge them into boiling water, then
quickly rub off the glazed outer skin, drop peppers into cold water
until crisp. Cut a slice from the stem ends, remove seeds and veins,
then cut in thread like rings.) Serve with French Dressing, to which add
one tablespoon Roquefort cheese. Blend well before pouring over Salad.
PROCESS: Cook blackberries in water and salt until berries are soft. Rub
through a sieve and add sugar to pulp; return to range and cook until
mixture thickens, stirring occasionally. Sift flour with baking powder
and salt, work in Cottolene with tips of fingers, and mix to a soft
dough with yolk of egg mixed with one-half cup of milk. Turn onto a
floured board, knead slightly and roll out in a rectangular sheet
one-fourth inch thick. Divide this into four pieces, longer than wide.
Spread each with the blackberry sauce and roll up like jelly roll; wet
the edges, press lightly to prevent unrolling. Lay on buttered sheet and
brush tops with white of egg, sprinkle with sugar and a few grains
cloves. Bake twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. Serve hot with remaining
sauce kept hot over hot water or with
PROCESS: Cream butter, add sugar gradually, stirring constantly, add
milk and wine very slowly, continue beating. Add a sprinkle of nutmeg.
To avoid having sauce curdle, milk and wine must be added drop by drop.
[Sidenote: _August_
_Third Sunday_]
Menu
Wash small ripe cantaloupe (Rockyfords) with a brush, and chill
thoroughly. Cut in halves lengthwise and fill with Pineapple or
Raspberry Ice. Arrange on a bed of cracked ice; serve one-half melon to
each guest.
PROCESS: Make a syrup by boiling water and sugar twenty minutes. Mash
berries and rub through a fine sieve, add orange and lemon juice,
combine with syrup, strain and freeze. Shape with a cone mold and place
in seed cavities of halves of cantaloupe.
PROCESS: Add salt to boiling water, then add rice slowly and let cook
until rice is soft; drain. Pour over rice six cups cold water to
separate kernels. Add rice to hot consommé and serve with Cheese Balls.
PROCESS: Melt butter in a sauce-pan, add water, cook one minute; add
flour mixed with seasonings. Cook until mixture leaves the sides of pan,
stirring constantly. Cool slightly, add unbeaten eggs one at a time, add
cheese. Mix well and drop from tip of teaspoon into deep hot Cottolene.
Drain and serve immediately.
Wash and wipe six pounds of beef cut from the flank. Cover with boiling
water; bring to the boiling point and skim. Reduce heat and simmer until
meat is tender (time required about five hours), adding the last hour of
cooking one-half cup each of carrot, onion and celery cut in dice, two
sprays each of parsley and thyme, one of marjoram, six cloves, one-half
teaspoon peppercorns and one tablespoon salt. Remove meat and reduce
liquor to one and one-half cups; strain. Shred the meat, mix with the
liquor and press in a granite, brick-shaped bread pan, packing solidly.
When thoroughly cold, serve, cut in thin slices, with Whipped Cream
Horseradish Sauce (for recipe see Page 120).
To two cups hot riced potatoes, add one tablespoon finely chopped
chives, one egg yolk well beaten, whites four eggs beaten until stiff,
one-half cup grated cheese. Season with salt, pepper and a few grains
cayenne. Pile lightly in a well-greased baking dish and bake from
twenty-five to thirty minutes. Turn dish around several times carefully
that mixture may puff evenly.
Shell lima beans, wash and cover with boiling water; heat to boiling
point and drain; throw away water and rinse beans, drain again. Cook in
boiling, salted water until tender. Drain and add to an equal quantity
of hot boiled corn cut from the cob. Season with salt, pepper and
butter. Reheat before serving.
Wipe, pare and remove the cores from the desired number of ripe (early)
pears. Cut in eighths lengthwise. Arrange on beds of crisp cress, or
lettuce heart leaves. Bestrew with prepared red peppers cut in very fine
rings. Serve with French Dressing, using lemon juice in place of
vinegar. Canned red peppers may be used when fresh peppers are not
available. To prepare peppers, plunge them into boiling water for a
moment, cut a slice from stem ends, remove seeds and veins, cover with
cold water until crisp; drain dry, and cut in fine shreds.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring constantly; add
egg well beaten. Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt; add to
first mixture alternately with milk. Add extract and beat thoroughly.
Turn into a well-greased shallow pan, and bake twenty-five minutes in a
moderate oven. Cut in three-inch squares; pile thinly-sliced fresh
peaches on top of each portion, sprinkle thickly with powdered sugar and
serve with rich cream.
[Sidenote: _August_
_Fourth Sunday_]
Menu
Have a piece of Halibut cut weighing two and one-half pounds. Tie in a
square of cheese cloth (to prevent scum from settling on the flesh of
fish). Cover with boiling water to which add salt and vinegar or lemon
juice; the acid preserves the whiteness of the fish. Boil until the
flesh leaves the bones (about thirty-five minutes). Drain and remove
from cheese cloth. Pick out bones and remove skin. Place in a vessel
that will preserve the shape of fish, chill and dispose fish on a cold
serving platter on a bed of garden cress. Set a cucumber basket at
intervals (one for each guest), and serve with
PROCESS: Put salt, pepper and cayenne in bowl, add oil slowly stirring
constantly, add remaining ingredients and blend thoroughly. Chill and
pour over Boiled Halibut.
Select long cucumbers of uniform thickness (three cucumbers will make
six baskets), cut a slice from both the stem and blossom ends, pare and
cut in halves crosswise; cut from each piece a section so as to form a
handle crosswise of cucumber. Scoop out the soft pulp and seeds, brush
each basket over lightly with olive oil and sprinkle with finely chopped
garden cress or parsley. Fill the baskets with Mayonnaise Dressing or
Sauce Tartare (see recipe Page 84). Chill and serve in nests of
peppergrass or lettuce heart leaves.
Wash and pare medium-sized potatoes, cut them lengthwise in eight pieces
of a uniform size. Soak them in cold water two hours, changing the water
several times. Drain from water and dry between towels. Then fry a few
at a time in deep hot Cottolene. Drain on brown paper and sprinkle with
salt. This is an easy method of preparing potatoes in hot weather. The
potatoes may be prepared beforehand and the process of cooking is both
simply and quickly done. Be sure the Cottolene is not too hot as the
potatoes must be cooked through, as well as browned.
Have the water boiling. Remove the husks and silk from the corn and drop
them at once into the boiling water; bring water quickly to boiling
point and let boil rapidly five to ten minutes (depending somewhat on
age of corn). Drain from water and arrange in a napkin-covered platter;
serve at once.
Drain the apricots from the liquor in the can. Reserve liquor and cut
fruit in one-fourth inch cubes. To the syrup add sufficient water to
make four cups; add one cup orange juice; add one and one-half cups
sugar. Cook five minutes, strain and pour over apricots; chill and
freeze. Fresh apricots or peaches may be used when in season. The fresh
fruit should be cooked until clear, in a syrup made of four cups of
water and two cups sugar. When this mixture is frozen to a mush, two
cups of Whipped Cream may be added, if one desires a richer dessert.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring constantly; add
well-beaten eggs and yolk. Mix and sift flour (except one tablespoon),
baking powder and salt and mace; add to first mixture alternately with
milk. Dredge raisins with tablespoon flour, add to mixture and beat
thoroughly. Turn mixture into a well-greased, brick-shaped bread pan and
bake forty minutes in a moderate oven. Frost if desired.
[Sidenote: _August_
_Fifth Sunday_]
Menu
Fry circles of bread, cut one-third inch thick, in deep hot Cottolene.
Sauté slices of tomato in hot butter. Drain both on brown paper. Cover
each circle of bread with a slice of tomato, sprinkle with salt, pepper
and a few grains cayenne. Garnish each with a slice of cucumber and the
white of "hard boiled" eggs, cut in the shape of petals to represent
field daisies.
Have the bone of a knuckle of veal sawed in three pieces at the market.
Wash, wipe, and put in kettle with two pounds of lean veal, one onion
sliced, six slices carrot, one blade celery broken in pieces, one spray
parsley and one-half teaspoon peppercorns; cover with boiling water and
cook slowly until meat is tender. Drain; chop meat finely and season
well with salt, pepper and a few grains cayenne. Reduce liquor to one
cup, strain and reserve. Garnish the bottom of a granite, brick-shaped
bread pan with the white of "hard boiled" egg cut to resemble three
daisies; put a dot of the yolk in center of each and arrange sprays of
parsley between each daisy. Put a layer of meat, then a layer of thinly
sliced eggs sprinkled with parsley, finely chopped. Cover with remaining
meat; pour over strained liquor, press and let stand until cold and
jellied. Remove to serving platter, garnish with parsley and small round
radishes cut to resemble tulips. Slice thinly and serve with
PROCESS: Mix the first five ingredients thoroughly, then fold in the
whipped cream. Chill and serve.
Cut two and one-half cups cold, boiled new potatoes in one-half inch
cubes. Add one and one-half cups White Sauce. Season highly with salt
and white pepper, and reheat in double boiler. Remove to hot serving
dish and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley.
Wash and cut in quarters. Cook in boiling salted water until tender.
Drain through double cheese cloth. Pass through ricer or mash with
potato masher, and season with butter, salt and a little black pepper.
Reheat and serve.
Separate the crisp heart leaves of two heads of lettuce; arrange them on
a shallow serving dish to represent a full-blown rose. Pick over, wash
and dry a bunch of garden cress, chop finely and sprinkle over lettuce
leaves. Chop one small onion very fine and mix with French dressing.
Pour over lettuce. Serve at once.
Scald fine, ripe peaches; remove skins, cut in halves and remove stones.
Slice lengthwise and arrange in serving dish in layers. Sprinkle each
layer with sugar and lemon or orange juice. Chill and serve with cream
and sugar.
_September_
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _September_
_First Sunday_]
Menu
PROCESS: Peas that are too hard to serve as a vegetable may be used for
soup. Cover them with the cold water and cook until soft. Rub through
sieve, reheat pulp and thicken with butter and flour cooked together.
Scald milk with onion, remove onion, add milk slowly to pea mixture,
stirring constantly. Add hot cream and seasoning. Serve with Crisp
Saratoga Wafers.
Have the bones removed from five pounds of the shoulder of veal (reserve
bones). Stuff with bread stuffing, truss in shape and follow directions
for Braised Beef (see Page 139). Add two sprays of thyme and marjoram.
Serve with
PROCESS: Cook pepper, onion and butter together five minutes without
browning; add flour and cook two minutes, stirring constantly. Add
truffle, tomato pulp and gradually Brown Stock; continue stirring until
ingredients are well blended. Heat mushrooms in their own liquor, drain,
and add mushrooms to sauce. Stick a tooth-pick through the clove of
garlic, drop it into sauce and let it simmer fifteen minutes. Remove
garlic before serving.
Add to five hot mashed potatoes, one-fourth teaspoon celery salt, one
teaspoon finely chopped parsley or chives, salt, pepper and three
tablespoons butter, and enough hot milk to make of the consistency to
handle. Shape into smooth, round balls, roll in flour, egg and crumbs.
Fry a golden brown in deep, hot Cottolene. Dispose around Veal.
Discard all wilted leaves, remove the roots and pick over and wash
one-half peck of spinach in several waters, to rid it from all sand. If
young and tender, put in a stew-pan and heat gradually; let boil
twenty-five minutes, or until soft, in its own juices and the water that
clung to the leaves. Old spinach should be cooked in boiling, salted
water (it will require about two quarts of water to one peck spinach).
Drain thoroughly, chop finely in a wooden bowl. Melt three tablespoons
butter in an omelet pan; add spinach and cook four minutes, stirring
constantly, sprinkle with one and one-half tablespoons flour, continue
stirring and pour on gradually three-fourths cup hot, thin cream; simmer
five minutes.
Remove the leaves from the stalk, discarding all wilted and unsightly
leaves. Wash and keep in cold water until crisp. Drain and dry on a
crash towel or cheese cloth. Place between leaves thin slices of round,
red radishes, sprinkle with finely sliced young green onions. Garnish
with radishes cut to resemble tulips. Serve with French Dressing.
PROCESS: Line a pie pan with Plain Paste. Wipe, pare, core and cut
apples in quarters, then in slices lengthwise. Pile them in lined pie
pan, heaping them well in center, leaving a half-inch space around edge
of pie. Mix sugar, nutmeg, salt, lemon juice, grated rind and turn over
apples. Dot over with bits of butter; wet edges and cover with top
crust; press and flute edges. Bake forty-five minutes in a moderate
oven.
PROCESS: Mix and sift flour, salt and baking powder. Rub in Cottolene
(reserving one and one-half tablespoons), with tips of fingers. Add just
enough ice water to form a soft dough, mixing it in with a knife. Turn
on a floured board and roll out in a thin sheet, spread lightly with
remaining Cottolene. Roll like jelly roll and cut in two pieces, having
one piece a trifle larger than the other. Chill. Then stand rolls on
end, press down with the hand and roll in circular piece to fit pie pan.
The larger piece is for the top crust. This recipe makes the exact
quantity of pastry for one medium-sized pie with two crusts. If desired,
omit baking powder.
Put two quarts thick sour milk in a milk pan, place it on the back of
range where it will not boil or simmer; allow it to remain there until
the curd has separated from the whey. Lay a double square of cheese
cloth over a bowl, turn in the milk, lift the edges and corners of
cloth, draw them together, tie with a piece of twine and hang it up to
drain. When quite dry, turn into a bowl; season with salt and mix with a
silver fork, add sweet cream until of the desired consistency. Serve
very cold with hot gingerbread.
[Sidenote: _September_
_Second Sunday_]
Menu
Cut summer sausage in very thin slices. Dispose them on a narrow platter
overlapping one another. Garnish with sprays of peppergrass or parsley.
Arrange thinly sliced dill pickles on either side of sausage, placing a
ripe olive here and there; radishes cut to resemble roses may also be
used. Serve as an appetizer.
Trim a small fillet of beef weighing about four pounds into shape. Lard
the upper side and sprinkle with salt, pepper and dredge with flour.
Sprinkle small cubes of fat salt pork thickly over the bottom of a
dripping pan, set a wire trivet or rack on pork and lay meat on trivet.
Place in a very hot oven at first, to sear over surface. Baste every
five minutes for the first fifteen minutes, then several times after
during the cooking. If liked rare, it should cook thirty minutes; if
medium, allow thirty-five to forty minutes. Serve with Brown Mushroom
Sauce (see Page 167) using fat in dripping pan.
Wash, pare and cut potatoes in one-half inch cubes; there should be
three cups. Blanch by parboiling five minutes in boiling salted water;
drain. Melt one-third cup of butter in a frying-pan, add potatoes, and
cook over a slow fire until potatoes are soft and delicately browned.
Melt two tablespoons Cottolene in a sauce-pan, add a few drops onion
juice, one and one-half tablespoons flour, one-half teaspoon salt,
one-eighth teaspoon pepper; stir to a smooth paste and pour on slowly
one cup hot milk, stirring constantly. Remove from range and add one egg
yolk slightly beaten. Pour sauce over potatoes and sprinkle with finely
chopped parsley.
Select four firm, smooth, ripe tomatoes. Wipe them and cut out the hard
center around the stem ends; then cut them in halves crosswise. Rub the
cut sides lightly with a clove of garlic and dip cut side in soft
butter. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and buttered crumbs, pressing the
crumbs into tomato with a broad knife. Arrange them in a well-greased
wire broiler and broil with skin side down over glowing coals or under a
gas flame until soft, using care that they do not scorch. Remove to hot
serving platter, drop a bit of butter on each and serve immediately.
Onion juice may be used in place of garlic.
PROCESS: Sift dry ingredients together twice. To beaten egg add cream
and combine mixtures. Force bananas through a sieve and mix pulp with
lemon juice and sherry wine; add to batter, beat thoroughly, and drop by
tablespoonfuls into deep, hot Cottolene. Drain, sprinkle with powdered
sugar and serve with
Make, a syrup by boiling one cup sugar with one-fourth cup water and two
shavings of orange rind, four minutes. Remove from range, lift out
orange peel, add one-half tablespoon butter and one tablespoon each of
orange and lemon juice and Sherry wine.
Plunge a bright-red bell pepper (Ruby King) into boiling water, remove
immediately and rub off the outer "shiny" skin. Cover with ice water to
chill and become crisp. Cut a slice from the stem end and remove the
seeds and veins, then cut in rings as thin as possible. Cut one small
Spanish onion in very thin slices, separate the rings and "crisp" in ice
water. Drain and toss together both onion and pepper rings. Season with
salt, pepper, and pour over two tablespoons oil and one tablespoon
vinegar. Crush the pepper and onion into the dressing, then pile it in
nests of crisp lettuce heart leaves.
PROCESS: Mix ingredients in the order given. Add spices to taste. Line a
pie pan with Plain Paste, turn in mixture, wet edges and cover with top
crust made of Rich Paste; press and flute edges. Bake thirty-five
minutes in a moderate oven.
PROCESS: Mix salt with flour, cut in Cottolene (except one tablespoon)
with a knife, moisten with cold water. Turn on a floured board, pat and
roll out, spread with tablespoon of Cottolene and dredge lightly with
flour, then roll sheet like a jelly roll; divide in two equal parts.
Roll out a trifle larger than pie tin.
[Sidenote: _September_
_Third Sunday_]
Menu
PROCESS: Remove all fat tissue and skin from veal; remove skin from
pork. Pass both through meat grinder twice, add crumbs and seasonings,
except tomato, onion and green pepper; mix thoroughly and bind together
with egg. Shape in balls the size of a small egg. Roll in flour and
sauté a rich brown in Cottolene made hot in an iron frying pan. Heat
tomato pulp, add one-eighth teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon salt and
one-half tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce. Turn into a warm casserole,
add chopped pepper and onion. Dispose balls over sauce, rinse frying pan
with a little boiling water or Brown Stock and pour over balls. Cover
and let simmer in a moderate oven two hours. Serve from casserole, or
arrange on a hot platter and surround with a border of boiled rice
sprinkled with finely chopped parsley; place a spray of parsley in each
meat ball.
Wash six medium-sized, smooth potatoes. Bake, and cut off a lengthwise
slice from each; scoop out potato with a spoon using care that the
shells are not broken. Pass through ricer, add two tablespoons butter,
season with salt and pepper, one-half cup hot milk or cream. Add two egg
yolks well beaten, then fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Refill shells
with this mixture, using pastry bag and rose tube or pile it lightly
with spoon (do not spread smoothly). Bake in a hot oven until potatoes
are well puffed and browned.
Wash, pare and cut purple-top turnips in one-fourth inch cubes. Cook in
boiling salted water until tender (from forty minutes to one hour).
Drain well and reheat in White Sauce using cream in place of milk in
sauce. (For Cream Sauce see Page 151.)
Cut the corn from six ears of tender, sweet, green corn; scrape the cobs
with back of knife. Cook until tender in as little water as possible,
then add an equal quantity of stewed tomatoes. Add one-third cup butter
and one tablespoon sugar. Season with salt and pepper, heat to boiling
point and turn into hot serving dish.
Marinate the bleached leaves of crisp endive with French Dressing,
adding one and one-half tablespoons finely chopped chives and one-half
tablespoon Nasturtium seed cells finely chopped, to the dressing just
before pouring over Endive.
PROCESS: Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt; rub in Cottolene
with tips of fingers, add cream gradually, cutting it in with a knife.
Turn on a floured board, knead slightly, pat and roll out to one-half
inch thickness. Shape with a large biscuit cutter. Pare juicy, ripe
peaches, cut in halves lengthwise, remove stones, cut in quarters and
place three-quarters of a peach on each circle of dough, enclose them,
pressing the edges together. Place in a buttered, granite dripping pan
one and one-half inches apart, sift sugar around dumplings and pour cold
water over sugar. Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes, basting three
times. Serve with Hard or
PROCESS: Cream butter, add sugar, egg yolks, salt and gradually the
cream, stirring constantly. Cook over hot water until mixture coats the
spoon; add sherry and beat again. Turn in a sauce boat and sprinkle with
nutmeg.
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _September_
_Fourth Sunday_]
Menu
(For recipe see Page 40.)
Dress, clean and disjoint two chickens. Rub chicken over with a half
lemon cut in half lengthwise, sprinkle with salt, pepper and dredge with
flour. Sauté in hot Cottolene until richly browned, turning often.
Reduce heat, cover and let cook slowly until tender. It may be necessary
to add a little moisture (about 1/4 cup of hot stock or water). Remove
to serving platter and surround with Corn Fritters. Pass Cream Gravy.
PROCESS: Cook butter in a sauce-pan with onion until onion is delicately
browned. Remove onion, add flour mixed with seasonings; stir to a smooth
paste and brown lightly. Add hot stock gradually, stirring constantly.
Add hot cream and beat until smooth and glossy. The color of this sauce
is that of Café au Lait.
PROCESS: Mix corn, milk, flour, sugar and salt, add eggs. Drop by
tablespoonfuls on a hot well-greased griddle and cook as griddle cakes
until browned on one side; then turn and brown the other side.
Marinate a prepared cauliflower (see recipe on Page 95) with French
Dressing, to which add one tablespoon finely chopped chives. Dispose in
a nest of peppergrass, water cress, endive or lettuce heart leaves.
Sprinkle with grated Edam cheese.
PROCESS: Mix and sift the first three ingredients. Rub in Cottolene with
tips of fingers, add milk, mixing it in with a knife. This dough must be
soft enough to spread in a shallow, well-buttered pan to the depth of
one inch. (Add more milk if necessary.) Pare ripe, juicy peaches; cut in
halves lengthwise, remove stones and press halves into dough (cut side
up) in parallel rows, leaving a little space between rows. Brush peaches
over with melted butter, sprinkle with raisins, granulated sugar and
lightly with mace. Serve hot with Hard Sauce, or with cream sweetened
and flavored with nutmeg.
_October_
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _October_
_First Sunday_]
Menu
Allow one-fourth cup shrimps broken in pieces for each Cocktail. Season
with two tablespoons each tomato catsup, Sherry wine, one tablespoon
lemon juice, a few drops Tobasco Sauce, one-fourth teaspoon finely
chopped chives and salt to taste. Serve thoroughly chilled in Cocktail
glasses.
PROCESS: Wash, pare and cut potatoes in one-fourth inch slices. Wash,
pare and cut turnip the same. Cover with boiling water and cook ten
minutes; drain, add onion and three cups boiling water. Cook until
vegetables are tender; drain and reserve water. Rub vegetables through
strainer, add water, add milk. Reheat and bind with butter and flour
cooked together. Add hot cream and seasonings. Turn into hot tureen and
sprinkle with finely chopped parsley.
Wash and wipe a four-pound cut of fresh cod. Tie it loosely in a piece
of cheese cloth just large enough to cover fish. Place on a trivet in a
kettle, cover with boiling water, and add three slices onion, three
slices carrot, one spray parsley, a bit of bay leaf, three cloves, a
tablespoon salt and one-half cup vinegar. Bring quickly to the boiling
point, then reduce heat and simmer gently from twenty to thirty minutes.
Hard boiling breaks up the flakes of fish and toughens the fibre. Drain
from liquor, place fish on serving platter, remove the skin and pour a
few spoonfuls of Egg Sauce over the fish and the remainder around it.
Sprinkle finely chopped parsley over all, and garnish with hard-cooked
eggs cut to resemble pond lilies.
PROCESS: Melt one-half the butter in a sauce-pan, add flour mixed with
seasonings, pour on slowly hot water, stirring constantly. Boil five
minutes, then add remaining butter in small bits. Continue stirring. Add
hot cream and two eggs chopped moderately. Garnish with remaining eggs.
Pour sauce around fish and sprinkle with parsley.
Wash, scrub and pare one dozen medium-sized potatoes. If old, let them
stand in cold water for several hours before paring, to freshen them.
Cover with cold water, heat to boiling point, cover and boil fifteen
minutes, then add salt, replace cover and cook until potatoes are soft
(about fifteen minutes longer). Drain perfectly dry and shake the
potatoes in a current of cold air. Place sauce-pan in a warm place,
cover with a crash towel until ready to serve. Serve as soon as
possible, if you would have a mealy potato.
Season one quart of canned tomatoes with one and a fourth teaspoons
salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, two tablespoons sugar, one-half
tablespoon grated onion and a few grains cayenne. Moisten one and
one-half cups of soft bread crumbs with one-half cup melted butter.
Butter a deep baking dish, sprinkle with a thick layer of crumbs. Pour
in tomato mixture and cover with remaining crumbs. Bake in the oven
until cooked throughout and crumbs are browned.
Prepare beets as for Buttered Beets (see Page 143). Cut them in slices
and lay them in a stone or glass jar. Allow one slice of onion for each
beet, one tablespoon grated horseradish, eight cloves and vinegar enough
to cover. Let stand twenty-four hours and they will be ready for use.
Beets thus prepared will not keep longer than a week. If vinegar is too
strong, dilute with one-fourth part cold water.
Fill a two-quart mold two-thirds full of pared, stoned and sliced
peaches. Butter the inside edge of mold, also the inside of cover. Cover
with a soft dough made by mixing and sifting two cups flour, one-half
teaspoon salt and four teaspoons baking powder. Rub one tablespoon
Cottolene into flour mixture with tips of fingers, add sufficient rich
milk to make a soft dough. Sprinkle peaches with one-half cup sugar,
one-fourth teaspoon salt and dot over with one tablespoon butter cut in
small bits. Spread soft dough over all, cover closely and steam one
hour. Serve at once with
PROCESS: Mix corn-starch, sugar and salt, add water slowly, stirring
constantly. Boil gently eight minutes, remove from range, add vanilla,
and butter in small bits; stir until well blended.
[Sidenote: _October_
_Second Sunday_]
Menu
PROCESS: Wash and scrape carrot, cut in tiny cubes; wash and pare
turnip, cut same as carrot; wash, scrape and cut celery in thin slices;
wash, pare and cut potatoes in one-fourth inch cubes; peel and cut onion
in thin slices, mix vegetables, except potatoes, and cook ten minutes in
butter, stirring constantly. Add potatoes, cover and cook three or four
minutes, add beef broth which was previously strained and all fat
removed. Cover and simmer one hour. Put parsley, salt and pepper in
bottom of soup tureen and turn in hot soup.
Separate two young chickens in pieces for serving; dip in milk, sprinkle
with salt, pepper and dredge with flour, or dip in crumbs, egg and
crumbs and fry in deep hot Cottolene. Cottolene should not be too hot
the latter half of cooking chicken. Drain on brown paper; serve on hot
buttered toast with Béchamel Sauce. Double the recipe for Béchamel Sauce
(see Page 85.)
Boil sweet potatoes, remove skins and cut lengthwise in one-half inch
slices. Cool. Dip each slice in melted butter, sprinkle with salt,
pepper and thickly with brown sugar. Lay in a well-greased dripping pan
and brown in a hot oven. Dispose around rim of platter containing Fried
Chicken.
Select six firm, smooth tomatoes. Cut a thin slice from the blossom end.
Carefully scoop out the pulp and mix it with an equal quantity of cooked
corn, rice or bread crumbs. Season with salt, pepper, a few grains
cayenne, three tablespoons melted butter and a few drops of onion juice.
Refill tomato cups, replace the tops, place them in a buttered baking
dish and bake thirty minutes.
Shred half a head of cabbage very fine. Soak in cold, acidulated water
to cover (add one tablespoon vinegar to one quart water). Drain and mix
thoroughly with Cream Dressing. (See Page 50.) Chill and serve in lemon
cups arranged in nests of cress or parsley.
Select fine-flavored, tart apples, wipe, core and pare. Fill cavities
with washed figs cut in pieces. Bake until tender in a hot oven, basting
with hot sugar syrup. Serve cold with thick cream sweetened, and
flavored with nutmeg.
Cook one cup sugar and one and one-half cups water ten minutes. Add two
thin shavings of orange rind to syrup while cooking.
[Sidenote: _October_
_Third Sunday_]
Menu
(For recipe see Page 40).
Select five pounds of beef from the round or rump. Sprinkle with salt,
pepper and dredge with flour. Brown richly in a hot frying-pan in some
of its own fat; or with fat salt pork tried out, turning often. Place
meat in a Dutch oven or an earthen casserole on three thin slices of
salt pork, surround with two-thirds cup each of fat salt pork cut in
small cubes, carrot, onion and celery, a spray each of parsley, thyme
and marjoram. Add two cups Brown Stock or water, the half of a small bay
leaf, two small red pepper-pods, or one-half teaspoon pepper-corns, four
cloves. Sprinkle all with salt and strew top of meat with cubes of salt
pork. Cover closely and cook in a slow oven from four to five hours,
basting occasionally. Remove meat and strain the liquor. Rinse the
vessel in which meat was browned with stock or water, reserve the
liquor. Prepare a Brown Sauce with this liquor following recipe for
Plain Brown Sauce (see Page 82).
Serve in a sauce-boat, or turn around meat after placing on hot serving
platter. A cup of hot, stewed and strained tomatoes may be added to the
sauce, also one and one-half tablespoons of freshly grated horseradish
root and one tablespoon of Worcestershire Sauce; all of which improves
the flavor.
Wash and scrub with a vegetable brush eight uniform-sized potatoes.
Place in dripping pan, and bake in hot oven forty-five minutes, turning
when half done. Take up each potato with a towel and press gently to
crack the skins. Put a half teaspoon butter in each potato and serve at
once.
Pare a medium-sized egg plant, cut in one-fourth inch slices and soak in
cold salt water over night. Drain and cover with cold water one hour,
drain again and dry between towels. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip
in batter and fry in deep, hot Cottolene.
PROCESS: Mix and sift flour, salt and pepper; add milk slowly, stirring
until batter is smooth; add olive oil and well beaten eggs.
Cut one-half large head or one small head boiled cabbage, in pieces.
Cover with one cup White Sauce, sprinkle with one-third cup grated
cheese, two tablespoons finely chopped pimentos; season with salt,
pepper, mix well. Turn into a well-greased baking dish and cover with
buttered crumbs; place on grate in oven and bake until heated throughout
and crumbs are browned.
Remove the wilted leaves from two heads of romaine, trim off the stalk
and cut the heads in halves lengthwise (if heads are large, they may be
cut in quarters); lay in cold water, cut side down, until crisp. Drain
well, dispose on salad plates and pour over French Dressing. Serve two
Cheese Fingers with each portion of Salad.
Mix one Cream Cheese with an equal quantity of finely chopped English
walnut meats; season with salt, black pepper and a few grains cayenne.
Moisten with Cream Salad Dressing. Spread between thin slices of white
bread and cut in strips the width of fingers.
PROCESS: Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt; rub in Cottolene
with tips of fingers, add milk gradually, mixing ingredients with a
knife. Turn on a slightly floured board, knead slightly, pat and roll to
fit top of pudding dish. Butter bottom and sides of dish, put in peaches
and sugar in layers. Cover with dough; press edges over edge of dish and
steam one hour. Serve in dish in which it was steamed. Serve with
PROCESS: Cream butter; add sugar gradually, stirring constantly, yolk of
egg and sherry; continue stirring. Cook over hot water until mixture
thinly coats wooden spoon. Remove from range and pour over stiffly
beaten whites of eggs. Turn in serving pitcher and sprinkle with
nutmeg.
[Sidenote: _October_
_Fourth Sunday_]
Menu
Cut stale white bread in crescents. Fry a delicate brown in deep hot
Cottolene. Drain on brown paper. Mix equal parts of finely chopped
olives and English walnuts, season with a few grains cayenne and moisten
with Mayonnaise or Boiled Salad Dressing to the consistency to spread.
Spread fried bread with mixture and garnish with very thin strips of
pimentos; set pimolas in center of each canapé.
To four cups of Consommé add two cups each clam water and tomato pulp.
Clear, and add soft part of clams. Heat to boiling point and serve in
Bouillon cups.
Wash and scrub (in several waters) with a stiff vegetable brush two
quarts of clams. Place in an agate stew pan, add one-half cup cold
water, cover and let simmer until shells open. Remove clams from shells
and strain liquor through a napkin. Use only the soft parts of clams.
Spread one dozen Saltines with butter; sprinkle with a few grains
cayenne. Brown delicately in a hot oven; serve at once.
PROCESS: Chop the vegetables, sprinkle with salt and let stand over
night. In the morning drain and press in a coarse crash towel to remove
all the acrid juice possible. Add vinegar, sugar and spices and simmer
until vegetables are tender and clear. Sterilize fruit jars and fill to
overflowing. Seal and store.
Cut two pounds of veal from the leg in one-inch cubes. Add a fourth-inch
thick slice of salt pork, cut in very small cubes. Cover with boiling
water. Add one small carrot sliced, one stalk celery broken in pieces,
and two slices onion. When half done add one-half tablespoon salt. Cook
until meat is tender. Remove the meat and strain the broth; thicken
broth with flour diluted with cold water. Put meat into a baking dish
and pour over enough of the thickened broth to barely cover the meat.
Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Make a soft dough by mixing and sifting
one and one-half cups pastry flour, one-half teaspoon salt, two and
one-half teaspoons baking powder; rub in three tablespoons Cottolene
with tips of fingers, then add milk enough to make a soft dough and drop
by tablespoonfuls upon meat--(dumplings should set upon the meat and not
sink into gravy) close together to cover the surface. Bake thirty
minutes in a hot oven. Serve remaining gravy in a sauce-boat.
Wash and scrub beets with a vegetable brush, being careful not to break
the skin. Cook in boiling water to cover (about an hour for small young
beets, and old beets until tender). Drain and rub off the skins at once;
slice, sprinkle with salt and pepper and dot over with bits of butter.
Serve hot.
Cut Hubbard squash in pieces for serving. Remove seeds and stringy
portion. Put one-half teaspoon molasses in each portion and sprinkle
with salt and pepper. Bake in a hot oven until tender. Put a piece of
butter on each portion and serve in the shell.
Select six smooth, ripe tomatoes. Scald quickly and remove skins. Cut a
slice from stem ends, scoop out pulp and chill tomato cups. Drain the
pulp and add an equal quantity of crisp celery cut in small pieces,
cucumber cut in small dice, and shrimp broken in four pieces. Moisten
with Mayonnaise Dressing. Refill tomato cups, put a rose of Mayonnaise
on top of each, using pastry bag and rose tube. Serve in lettuce heart
leaves.
Mix one and one-half cups cranberries chopped moderately, three-fourths
cup seeded and shredded raisins, one cup sugar, one tablespoon flour and
a sprinkle of salt. Pile this mixture in a pie pan lined with Plain
Paste. Dot over with one tablespoon butter. Add two tablespoons orange
juice. Cover with Rich Paste and bake as other pies.
_November_
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _November_
_First Sunday_]
Menu
(For recipe see Page 15.)
Have the ribs removed, meat rolled and skewered in shape, from a
five-pound rib roast of beef, at the market, (have ribs and trimmings
sent with roast). Wipe meat, sprinkle with salt, pepper, dredge with
flour and arrange on rack in dripping pan. Place in a hot oven and, when
slightly brown, reduce heat and baste every ten minutes for the first
half hour with fat in pan, afterwards every fifteen minutes during
cooking. (If cooked rare it will require one hour and fifteen minutes.)
Drain and strain fat in the pan--return three tablespoons to dripping
pan, add four and one-half tablespoons flour and brown richly (do not
burn flour), add slowly one and one-half cups of Brown Stock or boiling
water, stirring constantly. Season with salt, pepper, and one-half
teaspoon Kitchen Bouquet.
Wash and pare six medium-sized potatoes; parboil five minutes. Drain
dry. Place on grate around roast beef. Baste with fat in pan when
basting roast. Bake from thirty to thirty-five minutes, turning often or
when basting roast. Sprinkle with salt and serve surrounding rolled
roast, alternating with Stuffed Tomatoes.
Select six smooth, firm, ripe tomatoes. Wash, wipe and cut a slice from
the stem end; scoop out the seeds and soft pulp. Mix with the pulp an
equal amount of corn cut from the cob, one tablespoon finely chopped
green pepper, half tablespoon finely chopped onion. Season with salt and
pepper, add one and one-half tablespoons melted butter and a teaspoon
salt. Mix well and refill tomato cups; sprinkle tops with buttered
crumbs. Place tomatoes in a granite dripping pan and bake until tomatoes
are soft and crumbs are brown. Remove to serving dish with a broad knife
and serve.
Pick over, wash and drain firm crab apples, do not remove the stems.
(Apples must not be too ripe). For eight pounds of fruit allow four
pounds of sugar, one quart vinegar, one-fourth cup whole cloves,
one-fourth cup stick cinnamon broken in pieces. Boil sugar, vinegar and
spices ten minutes. Strain and tie spices loosely in a piece of cheese
cloth. Put fruit in strained liquor, also bag of spices, and cook slowly
until fruit can be easily pierced with a small wooden skewer
(tooth-pick). Remove fruit and fill a sterilized stone jar. Simmer
liquor slowly until reduced to half the original quantity; pour over
fruit. Lay bag of spices on top; seal and store.
Marinate the bleached leaves of two heads of escarolle with French
Dressing. Chill one hour before serving that it may be crisp. Sprinkle
thickly with finely chopped chives and a sweet, red, bell pepper chopped
very fine or cut in fine thread-like rings.
PROCESS: Sift flour, spices, salt and soda; add raisins, molasses, milk
and eggs, beat thoroughly, then add melted Cottolene. Turn into
well-greased brown bread molds and steam four hours. Serve with
PROCESS: Roll sugar, sift and add gradually to cream, stirring
constantly. Cream butter and add first mixture slowly, continue
stirring. Add vanilla and beat thoroughly with a whip.
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _November_
_Second Sunday_]
Menu
PROCESS: Wipe the meat and bone with a piece of cheese-cloth wrung from
cold water. Remove the meat from beef shin and cut it in one-inch cubes.
Remove the marrow from bone and brown one-half the meat in the marrow,
stirring constantly. Put remaining half in stock pot with cold water,
add veal cut in small cubes, browned beef and bones. Let stand
thirty-five minutes. Bring slowly to boiling point, skim and let
simmer--closely covered--for three hours. Add chicken stock and
continue simmering for two hours. Melt butter in frying pan, add the
vegetables and cook five minutes, stirring constantly; then add to soup
with remaining ingredients. Cook one and one-half hours. Strain, cool,
remove fat and clear.
PROCESS: Put butter, salt and sugar in mixing bowl. Add milk. When
lukewarm add dissolved yeast cake, white of egg, and flour, reserving
one-half cup. Knead until smooth and elastic; cover and set to rise
until light, then shape first in small balls, then roll on the board
(without flour) with the hands until about seven inches in length, using
care that they are of a uniform size, rounding the ends. They should be
about the size of a lead pencil. Cover and let rise. Just before putting
them in the oven, brush them over lightly with melted butter and
sprinkle them with salt. Bake in a slow oven, browning them delicately.
Wipe meat with a piece of cheese-cloth wrung from cold water, spread
meat generously with soft Cottolene and sprinkle with salt and pepper.
Place on rack in dripping pan, and dredge meat and bottom of pan with
flour. Add three slices of onion, six slices of carrot, three stalks of
celery cut in inch pieces. Bake one hour in a hot oven, basting every
ten minutes for the first half-hour, afterwards occasionally. Serve with
the following Wine Sauce. (Mutton may be prepared in same manner).
Put four tablespoons butter in a sauce-pan, brown richly; add five
tablespoons flour and continue browning, stirring constantly. Pour on
slowly one and one-half cups Brown Stock. Heat to boiling point and add
one-third cup Madeira Wine and one-third cup currant jelly previously
whipped. When jelly is well blended with sauce, strain and serve piping
hot.
Wash, pare thinly sweet potatoes, cover with boiling salted water and
cook until soft. Press them through potato ricer. There should be two
cups. Add four tablespoons butter, salt if necessary, and two
tablespoons hot cream or milk. Beat with a slotted spoon until very
light. Press again through potato ricer into hot dish.
Wash, scrape and cut celery in one-half inch pieces; there should be two
cups. Cover with boiling salted water and cook until tender. Drain and
reheat in one and one-fourth cups of
PROCESS: Melt Cottolene in a sauce pan, add flour, salt and pepper, stir
to a smooth paste and pour on slowly hot milk or cream, stirring
constantly. Beat with a wire whip until smooth and glossy.
Select the desired number of uniform-sized peppers, having half red and
half green. Cut a slice from the stem ends, remove the seeds and veins;
arrange them on beds of water cress, pepper grass, chicory or lettuce.
Fill peppers with the pulp of grapefruit cut in large cubes, Malaga
grapes skinned, seeded and cut in halves lengthwise, and butter nut
meats broken in pieces, allowing twice the quantity of grapefruit as
grapes and one cup of nut meats. Moisten with Mayonnaise Dressing. Fill
peppers. Place a rosette of Mayonnaise on top of each pepper, using
pastry bag and rose tube. Sprinkle the green peppers with finely chopped
green peppers, and the red peppers with chopped red peppers. Garnish top
of each with the half of a butternut meat.
PROCESS: Put Cottolene, salt and sugar (or molasses) in a large mixing
bowl and pour on scalded milk; when lukewarm add dissolved yeast cake,
white flour, two cups entire wheat flour and nut meats. Mix well and
turn on a well-floured board. Add more flour and knead until dough is
smooth and elastic. Return to bowl, cover with a cloth; set to rise in a
warm place. When more than double its bulk, turn on slightly floured
board, knead and shape in a loaf. Place in a well-greased, brick-shaped
pan (pan should be half full). Cover, let rise again to top of pan and
bake in a moderate oven fifty minutes to one hour. When twenty-four
hours old, cut in thin slices, remove crusts, spread one-half the slices
generously with cream cheese, cover with remaining slices and cut in
triangles.
PROCESS: Add cold water to rice and cook in double boiler thirty
minutes. Drain, return to double boiler, add milk and cook until rice is
tender, then rub through purée strainer. Beat egg yolks very light, add
sugar and salt, then pour slowly on hot rice. Cook until mixture
thickens, cool and half freeze. Then fold in the cream, whipped until
stiff. Fill a round mould, pack in salt and ice, let stand two or three
hours. Drain slices of canned pineapple; add one-half cup sugar to
liquor and two shavings orange peel. Place on range and reduce slowly to
a thick syrup. Cut slices of pineapples in half crosswise, lay them in
syrup for two hours. Unmould pudding and garnish with the pineapple,
placing cut side down.
_This menu would also prove very acceptable for a Thanksgiving Day
Dinner._
[Sidenote: _November_
_Third Sunday_]
Menu
(For recipe see Page 162.)
Select a plump, ten-pound young turkey; dress, clean, stuff and truss in
shape; place it on thin slices of fat pork laid in the bottom of
dripping pan; rub the entire surface with salt, sprinkle with pepper and
dredge with flour. Place in a hot oven and brown delicately. Turn and
brown back of turkey; then turn breast side up; continue browning and
basting every ten minutes until bird is evenly and richly browned. Add
two cups water to fat in pan; continue basting every fifteen minutes
until bird is tender, which may be determined by piercing leg with small
wooden skewer. It will require from three to three and one-half hours,
depending upon the age of the bird. If the turkey is browning too
rapidly, cover with a piece of heavy paper well-buttered, placed over
turkey buttered side down. Remove the skewer and strings before placing
it on serving platter.
Drain the liquid from the pan in which the turkey was roasted. Take six
tablespoons of the fat, strain the latter through a fine sieve. Return
the strained fat to the dripping pan and place on the range. Add seven
tablespoons of flour, stir to a smooth paste and brown richly, being
careful not to burn the mixture. Then pour on slowly while stirring
constantly, three cups of stock (in which the neck, pinions and giblets
were cooked). Bring it to the boiling point, and season to taste. Chop
the giblets very fine, first removing the tough parts of the gizzard;
then reheat them in sauce, and serve.
Remove the crust from two small baker's loaves; slice and pick in small
bits; season with one-half teaspoon pepper, two and one-half teaspoons
salt, one-half teaspoon powdered sage, and one medium-sized onion finely
chopped; mix well, using two forks; melt two-thirds cup of butter in
three-fourths cup boiling water; add to first mixture; toss lightly with
forks; add two eggs slightly beaten, mix well, and fill well the body
and breast of turkey. If bread is very stale, more moisture may be
added. If a crumbly stuffing is desired, omit eggs.
Pick over and wash one quart cranberries. Seed two-thirds cup raisins;
add to cranberries; add one cup boiling water and boil twenty minutes.
Rub through a sieve, and add to pulp two cups sugar and two-thirds cups
scalded seeded raisins; cook five minutes, stirring constantly. Turn
into a mold previously wet with cold water. Chill and serve.
Chop one can of corn or two cups of green corn fine. Add three eggs
slightly beaten, one-half tablespoon sugar, one teaspoon salt,
one-eighth teaspoon pepper, one tablespoon melted butter and two cups
scalded milk. Turn into a buttered baking dish or into individual
ramekins, and bake in a slow oven until solid or custard-like. Serve in
baking dish.
Remove the skins from one dozen medium-sized onions, under water--to
prevent the odor from penetrating the fingers--or grease the fingers
before beginning to peel them. Drain, place them in a sauce-pan, and
cover with cold water; bring quickly to the boiling-point and boil five
minutes. Drain and cover with boiling salted water; let cook uncovered
until tender (about one hour), but not broken. Prepare a thin cream
sauce made as follows:
Melt three tablespoons butter in a sauce-pan; add three tablespoons
flour; stir to a smooth paste. Add one and one-half cups hot thin cream
or milk; season with salt and pepper. Reheat onions in sauce; turn in
hot serving-dish, and sprinkle with one-half teaspoon finely chopped
parsley.
Shave one-half head white cabbage as fine as possible, using a sharp
knife. Serve with a dressing made of yolks of two eggs slightly beaten;
add one-fourth cup each of hot water and hot vinegar, slowly beating
constantly, four tablespoons butter, a few drops onion juice, one-half
teaspoon salt, and sift in one-half teaspoon ground mustard and
one-eighth teaspoon pepper. Stir this mixture over hot water until it
thickens to the consistency of cream; add to cabbage; mix well; place on
range, stirring constantly until mixture is heated throughout. Two
tablespoons of sugar may be added.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene. Add molasses and milk. Sift flour, soda, salt
and spices together; add gradually to first mixture; beat thoroughly.
Mix raisins and currants; dredge them with flour and add to batter; mix
well. Turn into a well-buttered tube mold; fill two-thirds full; place
on buttered cover; set on trivet; surround with boiling water and steam
three hours. Serve with
PROCESS: Divide the butter into two equal parts. Melt one part in a
sauce-pan; add flour, and stir to a smooth paste; add boiling water
slowly, stirring constantly; let come to boiling point. Remove to side
of range, and add remaining butter in small bits; continue beating. Then
add salt, sugar, brandy and nutmeg. Beat again, and serve very hot.
PROCESS: Mix ingredients in the order given. Turn in pie-pan lined with
pastry. Bake in a hot oven for the first five minutes to set pastry;
then reduce heat and bake slowly twenty-five minutes.
[Sidenote: _November_
_Fourth Sunday_]
Menu
PROCESS: Cook onion and pepper in two tablespoons butter five minutes,
without browning; add water and cook until onions are soft (about forty
minutes). Rub through a sieve. Melt remaining butter, add flour and stir
to a paste; add gradually scalded milk, stirring constantly. Combine
mixtures, add seasonings. Heat to boiling point, remove from range, add
yolk of egg slightly beaten. Pass Parmesan cheese and hot, crisp
crackers. Two tablespoons cheese may be added to soup when adding egg
yolk. Serve very hot.
Dress, clean and cut up a fowl. Place in stew pan, cover with boiling
water. Add three slices onion, one stalk celery broken in pieces, six
slices carrot, spray of parsley, one-half teaspoon peppercorns and a
small bit bay leaf. Heat to boiling point, skim, cover and simmer
slowly until meat is tender; the last hour of cooking add one tablespoon
salt. Remove chicken, add one cup thin cream, strain stock and thicken
with flour diluted with cold milk or water. Add one-half tablespoon
finely chopped parsley. Serve with Tea Biscuit. If a richer sauce is
desired, butter may be added to stock.
PROCESS: Mix and sift flour, salt and baking powder, add Cottolene and
rub it in lightly with tips of fingers. Add milk and mix to a soft dough
with a knife. Toss on a floured board, pat and roll to one-half inch
thickness. Shape with a small biscuit cutter, place close in buttered
pan and bake 15 minutes in hot oven.
Arrange thin slices of crisp Spanish onion in nests of bleached chicory
leaves. Pile on onion Jonathan apples pared and cut in one-half inch
cubes, celery hearts cut in small pieces and fresh English walnut meats
cut in quarters. There should be an equal quantity of apples and celery,
and one cup of nut meats to two cups each of the others. Moisten with
Mayonnaise, sprinkle each portion with finely chopped green pepper.
PROCESS: Mix the ingredients in the order given, stir until ingredients
are well blended. Line a deep, perforated pie pan with Rich Paste; brush
over with slightly beaten white of egg. Turn in squash mixture and bake
in a moderate oven. Serve cold with whipped cream sweetened and flavored
with mace.
_December_
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _December_
_First Sunday_]
Menu
(For recipe see Page 38.)
Wipe and split two large pork tenderloins in halves lengthwise; sprinkle
with salt, pepper and dredge with flour. Melt two tablespoons each of
Cottolene and butter in an iron frying pan, and brown tenderloin richly
on both sides in the hot fat. Remove to well-greased dripping pan and
add to fat three onions thinly sliced; cook until delicately browned,
stirring often. Sprinkle over onions two tablespoons flour, stir well.
Put two tablespoons vinegar into one-half cup hot water, add slowly to
onions, mix thoroughly. Lay tenderloins over onions, cover closely and
cook in the oven until meat is tender. Dispose tenderloin on hot serving
platter and pour over contents of frying pan. Vinegar may be omitted and
more water added.
Wipe and core eight tart apples; arrange them in a granite dripping pan.
Fill cavities with sugar and drop one-fourth teaspoon butter on top of
each, sprinkle with cinnamon, sprinkle round one-half cup sugar and pour
on one cup cold water. Bake in a slow oven until soft, basting often
with syrup in pan. Dispose on serving dish and sprinkle with granulated
sugar.
Wash, pare and slice six medium-sized potatoes. Butter a quart baking
dish, lay in a layer of potatoes, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and dot
over with bits of butter, dredge with flour and sprinkle lightly with
chives. Repeat until potatoes are used and two tablespoons each of
butter, flour and chives. Pour over one and one-half cups milk. Cover
and bake one hour in the oven. Remove cover and brown top. Serve in
baking dish.
Slice thinly three or four Bermuda onions. Sprinkle with one tablespoon
sugar, one teaspoon salt and cover with ice water. Let stand three
hours. Drain and serve with French Dressing.
PROCESS: Mix and sift flour, salt and baking powder, rub in Cottolene
with tips of fingers, add cream, cutting it into flour mixture with a
knife. Mix well. Turn on a floured board, knead slightly and roll out to
one-half inch thickness. Shape with a large biscuit-cutter and place two
halves of peeled apricots (drained from the syrup in the can) on each
circle. Enclose them, pressing edges of dough together. Place them in a
well-buttered granite dripping pan, one and one-half inches apart;
sprinkle round them one cup granulated sugar, pour around two and
one-half cups cold water. Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes, basting
three times during cooking. Serve with
PROCESS: Cream butter, add sugar slowly, stirring constantly (this gives
sauce a fine, smooth grain). Flavor as desired and pass through pastry
bag and rose tube onto serving dish. Sprinkle with nutmeg.
[Sidenote: _December_
_Second Sunday_]
Menu
PROCESS: Place oysters in a colander; pour over one cup cold water. Take
up each oyster with the fingers to remove bits of shells, reserve the
liquor. Heat to boiling point and strain through double cheese cloth,
set aside. Scald milk with celery, remove celery and add strained oyster
liquor to milk. Plump oysters in their own liquor, take up with a
perforated skimmer and lay over butter and seasonings, place in a hot
soup tureen. Strain liquor into milk mixture and pour the latter over
oysters. Serve at once with crisp, hot oyster crackers.
Wipe meat; pound gently all over with a cleaver. Place in a kettle and
cover with cold water, add one small carrot sliced, one turnip sliced,
four slices onion, two sprays parsley, a bit of bay leaf and one-half
teaspoon peppercorns. Cover and bring quickly to boiling point; boil
five minutes. Skim. Reduce heat and simmer until meat is tender (from
two to three hours). Add one tablespoon salt the last hour of cooking.
Serve with
PROCESS: Melt butter in a sauce-pan, add flour mixed with seasonings.
Stir to a paste and pour on slowly broth in which mutton was boiled,
first removing fat. Beat until smooth and glossy, add capers and heat to
boiling point. Serve in sauce-boat.
Cook one cup well-washed rice in three quarts of boiling water until
partially softened. Drain; add to rice two cups of well-seasoned White
Stock; turn into double boiler and steam until rice is soft and stock
absorbed. Stir in one-fourth cup butter, one tablespoon finely chopped
chives or parsley. Mix well with a fork and turn into hot serving dish.
Sprinkle with pepper.
Cut a marrow squash in slices, remove the seeds and stringy portions,
pare and lay in a steamer. Cook over boiling water until tender. Drain
perfectly dry. Mash and season with butter, salt, pepper and a little
sugar. Serve hot with tiny dots of butter over top.
Cut a slice from the stem end of a large egg plant. Remove the inside,
leaving a shell one-eighth inch thick. Cut pulp in one-half inch cubes,
and cook in boiling salted water until tender; drain. Cook two
tablespoons butter with one onion finely chopped, until delicately
colored (not brown), add one tablespoon finely chopped parsley. Mix with
egg plant, season with salt and pepper, and refill shell. Cover with
one-half cup buttered crumbs and bake in the oven until heated
throughout and crumbs are brown. Serve in shell.
PROCESS: Cook beans in boiling salted water until tender; drain. If
canned French lima beans are used, drain from liquor in can and rinse in
cold water. Cover beans with French Dressing, let stand one hour. Drain
and sprinkle with chives (onion juice may be used). Mix with Cream
Dressing and arrange in nests of lettuce heart leaves. Garnish with eggs
cut in quarters lengthwise; dip sharp edge in French Dressing, then in
finely chopped chives or parsley.
Rub one cream cheese to a paste, add six olives finely chopped and
one-half cup finely chopped pecans. Spread thin slices of graham bread
with chive butter. Spread an equal number slices of bread with cheese
mixture. Lay one of each together, press edges, trim off crusts and cut
diagonally across in triangles.
PROCESS: Put sugar, salt and Cottolene in large mixing bowl. Pour on
boiling water; when lukewarm add dissolved yeast cake. Sift together
Graham and white flour, reserving one cup white flour for kneading. Add
flour gradually to water mixture, stirring constantly; beat as mixture
becomes stiff. Turn on a well-floured board and knead until dough is
smooth and elastic. Return dough to bowl, cover and set to rise in a
warm place. When dough has doubled its bulk, cut it down with a knife
without removing from bowl; cover and set to rise again. When double in
bulk, knead slightly, weigh dough and divide into one-pound loaves.
Shape loaves, place two loaves in each well-greased, brick-shaped bread
pan, brush between loaves with melted Cottolene. (There will be six
loaves.) Cover and set to rise; when light, bake one hour in a "bread
oven."
Cream one-fourth cup butter; add two tablespoons very finely chopped
chives. Season with a few grains salt and cayenne.
PROCESS: Cover bread crumbs with milk. Mix Cottolene with figs. To the
milk mixture add eggs, sugar, salt and orange rind; combine mixtures.
Beat thoroughly and turn into a well-greased tube mold; cover and steam
three hours. Serve with Brandy or Vanilla Sauce.
[Illustration]
[Sidenote: _December_
_Third Sunday_]
Menu
PROCESS: Cook carrots in water until tender. Rub through sieve,
reserving the liquor. Cook rice in milk in double boiler until soft.
Sauté onion a delicate brown in butter, add flour and stir to a paste.
Add carrot mixture to milk and pour slowly over flour paste, stirring
constantly; heat to boiling point and add cream. Strain into hot soup
tureen and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley.
Wipe five pounds beef cut from top of round; put bits of fat in an iron
frying pan, shake over fire until tried out (there should be about
one-fourth cup fat). Rub meat over with salt, dredge with flour and sear
quickly over in hot fat turned into the pot in which meat is to roast.
Add one cup boiling water, cover closely and cook slowly until meat is
tender (about four or five hours), turn occasionally, add only
sufficient water to prevent meat burning. The last hour of cooking
sprinkle well with salt and pepper. Serve with brown gravy made from
liquor in pot.
PROCESS: Brown butter richly (without burning) in a sauce-pan; add flour
and continue browning, stirring constantly. Pour on stock slowly,
continue stirring until sauce is smooth. Drain mushrooms from the liquor
and sauté them delicately in butter. Remove from range, add egg yolk and
Worcestershire Sauce; add Brown Sauce slowly, stirring constantly.
Reheat over hot water and season with salt, pepper and Kitchen Bouquet.
Pare the desired number of medium-sized potatoes; parboil ten minutes in
boiling salted water. Drain, dry and place in pan around roast beef,
veal or pork, fifty minutes before meat is done. Baste with the liquor
in pan and turn often to brown evenly.
Select the desired number of silver skin onions, medium size. Peel and
cover with boiling water, bring to boiling point, boil five minutes.
Drain and cover again with boiling salted water. Cook until tender,
drain and remove to serving dish. Melt one-third cup butter (for one
dozen onions) in same sauce-pan, add one teaspoon finely chopped
parsley. Pour butter over onions and sprinkle with black pepper.
Wash and scrub parsnips. Cover with boiling water and cook until tender.
Drain, plunge in cold water and rub off skins with the hands. Mash and
rub them through a coarse sieve. Season with salt and pepper, moisten
with a little cream and butter. Flour the hands and shape mixture in
small, flat, oval cakes. Dredge them with flour and sauté a golden brown
in melted butter, turning them as griddle cakes. Serve very hot.
Cut a firm, crisp, small head of cabbage in quarters. Cut out the stalk
and shave in very thin slices crosswise. Cover with ice water and when
crisp drain dry. Mix with the following Cream Dressing. Pile
pyramid-like in a glass serving dish, and serve very cold. If cabbage is
large, use half a head.
One cup thick sour cream (not old sour cream). Chill and stir in one
teaspoon salt, a few grains cayenne, three tablespoons fine sugar and
three tablespoons vinegar, diluted with one tablespoon cold water. Beat
well and pour over cabbage, toss lightly with a fork and sprinkle with
one teaspoon finely chopped parsley.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring constantly. Mix
and sift flour, baking powder and salt; add to first mixture alternately
with milk. Add extract. Cut and fold in whites of eggs. Fill buttered
pop-over cups two-thirds full, place in steamer, cover steamer with a
folded crash tea towel, cover closely and steam forty-five minutes.
Serve with orange sauce or in nests of Whipped Cream, sweetened and
flavored with Vanilla.
_This will also be found a very acceptable menu for a Christmas Dinner._
[Sidenote: _December_
_Fourth Sunday_]
Menu
PROCESS: Mix ingredients in the order given. Chill thoroughly and pour
over oyster cocktails. Place six small oysters in each cocktail glass,
add sauce and serve very cold. This sauce is sufficient for six
cocktails. Oyster Cocktails may be served very attractively in tomato
cups.
PROCESS: Cook the butter and flour together in a sauce-pan; add
gradually hot stock until of the consistency to pour; then add
remaining stock, let cook gently twenty minutes. Chop almonds fine,
then pound them to a paste, add to first mixture and beat until
thoroughly blended. Add hot cream and seasoning. Serve en tasse;
sprinkle each portion with finely chopped parsley.
Dress and clean a brace (two) young domestic or wild ducks. Truss same
as goose. If domestic ducks are used they may be stuffed. In the wild
ducks place in each a head of celery; this is thought to improve their
flavor. Domestic ducks should always be cooked "well done" and twice as
long as wild ducks. Place the ducks on rack in dripping pan, sprinkle
with salt and pepper, cover breast and legs with very thin slices of fat
salt pork. Place in a hot oven and roast one and one-quarter hours,
basting every five minutes (with fat in pan) for the first half hour,
afterwards every ten minutes. Domestic ducks require a hotter oven than
wild ducks or fowl. When tender, remove string and skewers. Place on hot
serving platter, surround with Thorn Apples and serve with Olive sauce.
PROCESS: Crush crackers with the hands, not too fine. Add nut meats,
butter melted, cream, onion and parsley; mix well with a fork; add
seasonings. If stuffing appears too dry add more cream (a cup of chopped
apple or celery may be added). This is sufficient stuffing for one duck.
PROCESS: Melt butter in sauce-pan, add onion and cook until delicately
browned; remove onion and stir butter until well browned; add flour
sifted with seasonings, stir to a smooth paste and continue browning.
Add stock gradually, beating constantly. Pare the meat from olive pits,
leaving it in one continuous curl. Cover with boiling water and cook six
or seven minutes. Drain and add to Sauce.
Wash and pare six medium-sized sweet potatoes. Parboil ten minutes in
boiling salted water; drain and cut lengthwise in halves. Arrange them
in a well-buttered granite dripping pan. Make a syrup by boiling one cup
sugar with one-half cup water and two tablespoons butter three or four
minutes. Dip each piece of potato into syrup and arrange in dripping
pan. Bake until potatoes are tender (about forty minutes) basting two or
three times with remaining syrup. Oven should not be too hot as these
potatoes will scorch easily.
Prepare a syrup by boiling two cups sugar and one and three-fourths cups
water ten minutes. Wash, wipe, core and pare the desired number of
apples (about eight for this quantity of syrup). Drop apples into syrup
when pared, to prevent discoloration. Cook until tender, skimming syrup
when necessary. Use a deep sauce-pan for this purpose, as apples cook
better when covered with syrup. Better cook four apples at a time. Drain
from syrup and fill the cavities with quince jelly and stick apples
thickly with blanched and shredded almonds slightly toasted. Cut the
almonds lengthwise in three pieces, then divide, making six "thorns." It
is best to toast them in the oven until they are a golden brown.
Arrange slices of canned Hawaiian pineapple, drained from the liquor in
the can, in nests of crisp lettuce heart leaves. Pile on these Malaga
grapes peeled, cut in halves lengthwise and seeds removed, mixed with an
equal quantity of English walnut meats broken in pieces. Sprinkle
thickly with candied cherries, cut in fine shreds or chopped. Moisten
with French Dressing No. 2.
PROCESS: Put dry ingredients in bowl, add oil, mix well, then add lemon
juice slowly while stirring constantly. Chill thoroughly and use on
Fruit Salad.
PROCESS: Add crumbs to milk and let soak one or more hours. Add sugar,
yolks of eggs beaten very light, fruits mixed with nut meats and citron.
Cream Cottolene and add to first mixture, then brandy and spices sifted
together. Fold in whites of eggs beaten stiff; mix thoroughly and turn
into a well-greased tube mold and steam five to six hours. Remove from
mold to hot serving platter. Garnish with sprays of holly, pour around
brandy, light with a taper and send to table en flambeau (in a flame).
Serve with Brandy Sauce.
PROCESS: Cream butter, add sugar gradually, stirring constantly. Place
over hot water, add eggs and beat with a Gem whip until evenly blended,
cool slightly and add brandy, rum and salt. Fold in cream and sprinkle
with nutmeg.
[Sidenote: _December_
_Fifth Sunday_]
Menu
PROCESS: Soak barley in cold water over night; drain and cook in boiling
salted water until soft. Drain and reheat in consommé. Sprinkle in
one-half tablespoon finely chopped chives or parsley. Serve with crisp
crackers.
Wipe a five-pound loin of pork (little pig if possible); sprinkle with
salt, pepper, powdered sage and dredge with flour. Place in dripping
pan, surround with some of the fat cut in small cubes. Set to cook in a
moderate oven for four hours, basting every ten minutes for the first
half hour and afterwards every fifteen minutes, with dripping in pan.
Remove to serving platter, surround with Apple Rings and make a gravy
same as for other roast meats.
Pare, core and cut apples that are not too sour, in rings one-half inch
thick. Sprinkle them with lemon juice. Make a syrup by cooking one cup
sugar with one cup water, ten minutes. Drop in three or four Cassia buds
or pieces of stick cinnamon. Cook three or four apple rings at a time in
syrup until soft, turning often to preserve their shape. Drain and
arrange them around roast loin of pork. The syrup may be used for
stewing apples or prunes.
Select smooth sweet potatoes of uniform size. Wash and scrub with a
vegetable brush. Bake same as white potatoes. When soft, break the
skins, put into each a teaspoon butter and serve hot.
Pare and core three Jonathan apples. Cut them Julienne style (in
straws); there should be two cups. Sprinkle apples with lemon juice to
prevent discoloration. Clean one-half pound of dates, remove skins and
stones; let them dry off in the oven. When cold cut each date in strips,
same as apples. Mix apples and dates and marinate them with French
Dressing. Let stand one hour. Then add one-half cup almonds cut in
shreds lengthwise. Mix well and serve in nests of lettuce heart leaves.
Mask with Mayonnaise Dressing.
Roll Rich Paste one-eighth inch thick; cut in three-inch squares. Put
one or two teaspoons Cranberry mixture on one side of square, moisten
the edges with water, fold in triangle shape. Crimp the edges and prick
over top with fork. Bake same as pies. Sprinkle with fine sugar. Serve
hot with cheese.
PROCESS: Mix ingredients in the order given (except butter). Cook until
soft, stirring constantly. Add butter, chill mixture. Use for pie with
one crust and decorate, when baked, with pastry cut in fancy shapes and
baked on a tin sheet, or use for filling tarts.
_Supplementary Recipes_
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, beating constantly. Mix
and sift flour with baking powder and salt; add alternately to first
mixture with milk, continue beating. Add extract, and cut and fold in
the whites of eggs beaten until stiff and dry. Fill a tube cake pan
well-greased with Cottolene, two-thirds full, and bake fifty minutes in
a moderate oven. When slightly cool, spread with Ornamental Frosting.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring constantly; add
egg yolks, continue stirring and beating, add molasses, flour mixed and
sifted with spices, salt and soda; fold in the whites of eggs and lastly
add the fruit except citron. Turn mixture into a well-greased pan lined
with several thicknesses of heavy paper, put citron into mixture in
layers, having a layer of batter on top. Divide the mixture equally in
two tube pans, eight inches in diameter, filling pans two-thirds full.
Bake two and three-quarter hours.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene and work it in the dough with the hand. Add
eggs well beaten, sugar, soda dissolved in milk, fruit dredged with
one-fourth cup flour, remainder flour mixed and sifted with spices and
salt. Beat thoroughly with the hand. Turn mixture into a well-buttered,
brick-shaped bread pan, cover and let rise for one and a quarter hours
in a warm place. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. Spread with
PROCESS: Melt butter in sauce-pan; add sugar and milk. Stir constantly
that sugar may not stick to saucepan, bring to boiling point and cook
without stirring twelve to fourteen minutes. Remove from range and beat
until of the consistency to spread; add flavoring and pour over cake,
spread evenly with spatula. When frosting is firm, crease at once with
the dull edge of a silver knife. When eggs are high in price, this
frosting will prove very acceptable.
PROCESS: Melt chocolate over hot water, add boiling water and cook over
hot water until smooth, stirring constantly. Cream Cottolene, add sugar
gradually, stirring constantly; add chocolate mixture. Add yolks of eggs
well beaten. Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt, add alternately
to first mixture with milk. Add flavoring, and cut and fold in the
stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Turn into buttered layer cake pans and
bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. Spread with Boiled Frosting (for
recipe see Page 56) and sprinkle with shredded toasted almonds before
frosting sets.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add gradually one cup sugar. Beat egg yolk
thick and light, add gradually remaining cup sugar. Combine mixtures.
Mix and sift flour, baking powder, mace and salt. Add alternately to
first mixture with milk, add rose water. Then cut and fold in the
stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake in small heart-shaped individual
tins. Cover with frosting and outline the edge with tiny red candies.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, add well beaten egg, soda
dissolved in milk, salt, seeds, and flour to make a soft dough. Chill
the dough and shape as other cookies. Place a seeded raisin or the half
of a pecan nut meat in center of each before baking.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring constantly. Melt
chocolate over hot water, add the two extra tablespoons sugar and
boiling water. Cook one minute; when cool add to first mixture. Add
beaten eggs. Mix and sift flour (reserving one-fourth cup), baking
powder and salt. Add to cake mixture. Add fruit and nut meats dredged
with remaining flour. Chill mixture. Drop from spoon onto a well-greased
baking sheet one and one-half inches apart; press a raisin or the half a
nut meat in center of each cake and bake in a moderate oven.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene, add sugar gradually, stirring constantly. Add
beaten egg yolk and eggs. Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt.
Add to first mixture alternately with milk; add raisins dredged with
tablespoon flour. Beat thoroughly and fill small, buttered individual
tins two-thirds full. Strew tops with almonds, sprinkle with powdered
sugar and bake twelve to fifteen minutes in a moderate oven.
PROCESS: Add soda to molasses. Melt Cottolene in boiling water; combine
in mixing bowl. Mix and sift flour, salt and spices, add to first
mixture and beat thoroughly. Chill dough and roll a small portion at a
time to one-half inch thickness, shape with a round cutter. Press a
seeded raisin in top of each, sprinkle with coarse granulated sugar.
Bake in a moderate oven. It may be necessary to add more flour, as flour
varies in thickening properties.
PROCESS: Cream Cottolene and sugar gradually, add molasses, beaten egg,
flour sifted with salt, ginger and nut meats. Bake in very small
well-greased, iron gem or brownie cups. Place one-half pecan nut meat on
top of each cake.
PROCESS: Put molasses in sauce-pan, bring to boiling point; add
Cottolene and, when melted, add flour sifted with sugar, ginger, nutmeg
and salt. Drop from tip of spoon in small portions on a buttered tin
sheet, about three inches apart. Bake in a slow oven. When slightly
cool, remove from sheet with a spatula and roll over the handle of a
wooden spoon. Lay on cake cooler until crisp.
PROCESS: Sift together flour, baking powder and salt. Add shortening and
rub into flour with tips of fingers, using a light touch. Add milk or
water, mix with a knife to a soft dough. Turn on a lightly floured
board; knead slightly. Pat and roll to one-half inch thickness. Shape
with small biscuit cutter. Place close together in a buttered pan and
bake in a hot oven fifteen minutes.
PROCESS: Sift together flour, salt and baking powder; add shortening and
rub in with tips of fingers. Add cream, mix with knife to a soft dough.
Turn on a lightly floured board; pat and roll to one-third inch
thickness. Cut with biscuit cutter, place one-half of a stoned date on
half of biscuit, brush edges with milk and fold as Parker House Rolls.
Press edges together, brush top of rolls with milk and place one-half
date on top of each. Bake on a buttered sheet in a hot oven fifteen
minutes.
PROCESS: Mix and sift flour, salt and baking powder. Rub in Cottolene
with tips of fingers. Cut the cream into mixture with a silver knife.
When well mixed, toss on a well-floured board, pat and roll one-half
inch thick. Shape with very small biscuit cutter (size of silver
dollar), brush the top over with milk and bake twelve to fifteen minutes
in a hot oven.
PROCESS: Cream the Cottolene with a wooden spoon. Add sugar gradually,
then alternately cream and flour sifted with baking powder and salt. Add
well-beaten egg. Bake in hot, well-buttered gem cups. A cup of
blueberries may be added to this mixture for blueberry tea cakes or
one-fourth pound dates may be stoned, chopped and added to the butter
and sugar for date muffins.
