
Wash and clean asparagus, put in saucepan with just enough water to
cover, boil until little points are soft.
Cut these off and lay aside. Fry onion in the butter and put in saucepan
with the asparagus. Cook until very soft mashing occasionally so as to
extract all juice from the asparagus.
When thoroughly cooked put through sieve. Now add salt, sugar and flour
blended.
Stir constantly and add milk and cream, and serve at once. (Do not place
again on stove as it might curdle. Croutons may be served with this).
Put spinach in double boiler with the butter and water. Let simmer
slowly until all the juice has been extracted from the spinach.
Fry the onion and add. Now thicken with the flour blended with the water
and strain. Add the milk very hot. Do not place on the fire after the
milk has been added.
Half cream instead of milk greatly improves flavor.
Add the Crabs, then small can tomatoes. Thyme, parsley, bay leaf.
Put tomatoes with 1 pt. water to boil, boil for at least half hour. Fry
onion in butter and add to soup with sugar and salt. When thoroughly
cooked thicken with the flour blended with a little water. Now strain.
Have the milk very hot, not boiling. Stir constantly while adding milk
to soup and serve at once.
Do not place on the stove after the milk is in the soup. 1 cup of cream
instead of 2 cups of milk greatly improves the soup.
Put meat in large kettle and boil for an hour; now add all the other
ingredients and cook until soft. Ready then to serve.
This soup can be made as a cream soup without meat and is delicious. In
this case you take a good sized piece of butter and fry all the
vegetables slightly, excepting the potatoes. Now cover all, adding
potatoes with boiling water and cook until tender.
When done season and add hot milk and 1 cup cream. This is very fine.
In making this soup without meat omit the tomatoes and use string beans
instead.
Cover chestnuts with boiling water slightly salted. Cook until quite
soft and rub through coarse sieve, add stock, and seasoning; then
thicken with flour blended with water.
Let simmer five minutes and serve at once.
In case stock is not available milk can be used with a little butter
added.
Pour liquid with peanut butter into double boiler; dissolve butter so
there are no hard lumps. Do not let milk boil but place on moderately
hot fire.
Just before serving add the catsup and seasoning.
Cut into small pieces one pound of beef or mutton or a part of both.
Boil it gently in two quarts of water. Take off the scum and when
reduced to a pint, strain it and season with a little salt. Give one
teacupful at a time.
Peanut soup for supper on a cold night serves the double duty of
stimulating the gastric juices to quicken action by its warmth and
furnishing protein to the body to repair its waste. Pound to a paste a
cupful of nuts from which the skin has been removed, add it to a pint of
milk and scald; melt a tablespoon of butter and mix it with a like
quantity of flour and add slowly to the milk and peanuts; cook until it
thickens and season to taste.
Chestnuts, too, make a splendid soup. Boil one quart of peeled and
blanched chestnuts in three pints of salt water until quite soft; pass
through sieve and add two tablespoons of sweet cream, and season to
taste. If too thick, add water.
The oyster plant is used for this delicious dish--by many it is known as
salsify. Scrape the vegetable and cut into small pieces with a silver
knife (a steel knife would darken the oyster plant). Cook in just enough
water to keep from burning, and when tender press through a colander and
return to the water in which it was cooked. Add three cups of hot milk
which has been thickened with a little butter and flour and rubbed
together and seasoned with salt and white pepper. A little chopped
parsley may be added before serving. 1/2 cup cream instead of all milk
greatly improves taste.
Clean oysters by pouring over 3/4 cup cold water. Drain, reserve liquor,
add oysters, slightly chopped, heat slowly to boiling point and let
simmer 20 minutes; strain.
Scald milk with onion and mace. Make white sauce and add oyster liquor.
Just before serving add egg yolks, slightly beaten.
Soak 1 1/2 pints of split peas over night; next day add 2 1/4 quarts
water and the vegetables, cut fine; also the sugar, salt and pepper and
cook slowly three hours; now mash through sieve. If it boils down too
much add a little water. After putting through sieve place on stove and
add hot milk and cream. If it is not thin enough to suit add more milk.
Stock may be used if same is available.
One pint of black beans soaked over night in 3 quarts of water.
In the morning pour off the water and add fresh 3 quarts. Boil slowly 4
hours. When done there should be 1 quart. Add a quart of beef stock, 4
whole cloves, 4 whole allspice, 1 stalk of celery, 1 good-sized onion, 1
small carrot, 1 small turnip, all cut fine and fried in a little butter.
Add 1 tablespoon flour, season with salt and pepper and rub through a
fine sieve.
Serve with slices of lemon and egg balls.
One quart of thinly sliced carrots, one head of celery, three or four
quarts of water, boil for two and one-half hours; add one-half cupful of
rice and boil for an hour longer; season with salt and pepper and a
small cupful of cream.
Put veal in stewing pan and allow it to cook until thoroughly done. Now
chop meat and add cheese, flour, salt and pepper if needed and form into
little balls about the size of a marble. While preparing these, drop in
macaroni and cook until tender. Now add the meat balls.
If too thick use a little water. Beat the eggs lightly and add while
boiling.
[Illustration]
Make a batter of four tablespoons of sifted flour, one tablespoon of
olive oil or melted butter, two well-beaten whites of eggs, one-half
teaspoon of salt, and warm water enough to make a batter that will drop
easily. Sprinkle the oysters lightly with salt and white pepper or
paprika. Dip in the batter and fry to a golden brown.
Drain, and serve on a hot platter, with slices of lemon around them.
When cooked beat in the yolk of an egg.
Pick to pieces 1 can of lobster, juice of 1 onion, juice of 1 lemon,
stalk of celery chopped fine, paprika, sweet peppers, cut fine. Mix all
together and serve in ramekins. Serve very hot. Serves 12 people.
Mix well and form into croquettes. Roll in egg and cracker crumbs and
fry in deep fat.
[Illustration]
Wash and scrape the fish. Soak all night, changing the water at bed time
for tepid and again early in the morning for almost scalding hot. Keep
this hot for an hour by setting the vessel containing the soaking fish
on the side of the range. Wash next in cold water with a stiff brush or
rough cloth, wipe perfectly dry, rub all over again with salad oil and
vinegar or lemon juice and let it lie in this marmalade for a quarter of
an hour before broiling. Place on a hot dish with a mixture of butter,
lemon juice and minced parsley.
Dissolve flour in cream, add shrimps, rice, pepper (chopped), pour in
cream, add butter, add condiments, add just before serving 1 wineglass
sherry or Madeira.
[Illustration]
Chop Suey is made of chopped meat and the gizzards of ducks or chickens,
1 cup of chopped celery and 1/2 cup of shredded almonds.
Mix with the following sauce: 1 tablespoon butter and 1 teaspoon arrow
root stirred into 1 cupful broth. Add 1 teaspoon worcestershire sauce
and simmer all for twenty minutes.
Wash, clean and cut fine a veal kidney. Fry onion in butter until light
brown, add kidney, tomatoes, mushrooms, parsley, potatoes, seasoning and
water, and cook until tender.
Scrub and cleanse ham; soak in cold water over night; in morning place
in a large kettle and cover with cold water; bring slowly to the boiling
point and gradually add the molasses, allowing 18 minutes for each
pound. When ham is done remove from stove and allow it to become cold in
the water in which it was cooked.
Now remove the ham from water; skin and stick cloves (about 1 1/2 dozen)
over the ham. Rub brown sugar into the ham; put in roasting pan and pour
over sherry and vinegar. Baste continually and allow it to warm through
and brown nicely. This should take about 1/2 hour. Serve with a garnish
of glazed sweet potatoes. Caramel from ham is served in a gravy tureen.
Remove all greases from same.
This is a dish fit for the greatest epicure.
[Illustration]
First fry meat, then remove to platter. Start gravy by first frying the
onions a nice brown; then add flour and brown; drain the tomatoes and
fry; add rest of ingredients; put meat into this and let it cook slowly
for five to six hours.
[Illustration]
The only way in the world to serve a canvas-back or a mallard, or a
sprig, or even the toothsome teal, is as follows: The plucked bird
should be stuffed with a tight handful of plain raw celery and, in a
piping oven, roasted variously 8, 9, 10, or even 11 minutes, according
to size of bird and heat of oven. The blood-rare breast is carved with
the leg and the carcass then thoroughly squeezed in a press. The
resultant liquid is seasoned with salt, pepper, lemon and paprika, and
poured hot over the meat. This method of roasting insures the maximum
tenderness and flavor in the bird. The longer the wild duck is roasted,
the dryer and tougher it becomes.
Hoping that you may find the foregoing useful for your collection, and
with best wishes for the success of your book.
[Illustration]
Have meat ground fine as possible. Then mix thoroughly with the herbs, 1
egg, pepper and salt, 1/2 cup stock and 1/2 cup crumbs.
Form a loaf and brush top and sides with the second egg. Now, scatter
the remaining 1/4 cup of crumbs over the moistened loaf.
Place in a baking pan with the 1/2 cup of stock and bake in a moderate
oven three hours, basting very frequently, and adding water in case
stock is consumed.
Take two young ducks, wash and dry out thoroughly; rub outside with salt
and pepper--lay in roasting pan, breast down. Cut in half one good sized
onion and an apple cut in half (not peeled). Lay around the ducks and
put in about one and one-half pints hot water. Cover with lid of
roasting pan and cook in a medium hot oven.
In an hour turn ducks on back and add a teaspoon of tart jelly. Leave
lid off and baste frequently.
In another hour the ducks are ready to serve. Pour off fat in pan. Make
thickening for gravy (not removing the onion or apple).
For the filling, take stale loaf of bread, cut off crust and rub the
bread into crumbs, dissolve a little butter (about one tablespoon), add
that to the crumbs. Salt and pepper to taste and as much parsley as is
desired. Mix and stuff the ducks.
Saute the veal a moment in butter or lard without browning. Sprinkle
with flour and add water making a white sauce. Add any gravy you may
have left over, or 2 or 3 bouillon cubes and the onions and let cook 3/4
of an hour on slow fire. Just before serving add yolks of eggs mixed
with cream.
Cook for a moment, sprinkle with finely chopped parsley and serve.
Cut from raw roast beef very thin slices. Spread with a dressing made of
grated bread crumbs, a beaten egg and seasoned to taste. Roll up and put
all on a long skewer and brown in a little hot butter.
Cut up chicken and cook in water as for stewing, seasoning to taste.
When almost done add mushrooms and cook a little longer. Now put a large
lump of butter in a pan and after washing the rice in several waters,
dry on a clean napkin, and add to butter, stirring constantly. Do not
allow it to darken. Cook about ten minutes and remove from fire. Take
baking dish and put the rice in bottom. Now sprinkle generously with
parmesan cheese. Cut chicken up and remove all bones, pour over rice and
cook until dry, adding gravy from time to time.
This can be eaten hot or cold.
Soak liver in cold water for one hour, then skin and scrape it and run
it through meat chopper twice; the second time adding the suet. Brown
finely cut onion in two tablespoons of lard; add salt, pepper and sweet
marjorie to taste.
Soak 1/4 loaf bread in cold water, squeeze out the water and mix the
bread with the liver, then add three well beaten eggs and enough flour
to stiffen. Drop one dumpling with a spoon into one gallon of water
(slightly salted), should it cook away, then add more flour before
cooking the remainder of the mixture.
Boil thirty minutes, and longer if necessary. When properly cooked the
middle of the dumpling will be white.
Before serving, brown bread crumbs in butter and sprinkle over the
dumplings.
Should be Kentucky cured and at least two years old. Soak in water over
night.
Put on stove in cold water. Let it simmer one hour for each pound. Allow
it to stand in that water over night.
Remove skin, cover with brown sugar and biscuit or cracker crumbs,
sticking in whole cloves. Bake slowly until well browned, basting at
intervals with the juices. Do not carve until it is cold.
This is the way real Kentucky housekeepers cook Kentucky ham.
[Illustration]
Skin rabbits and wash well in salt water. Cut off the surplus skin and
use only the backs and hind quarters. Place in roasting pan, putting one
slice of bacon on each piece of rabbit. Have the oven hot.
Start the rabbits cooking, turning the bacon over so it will brown; when
brown turn down the gas to cook slowly. Pour 1/2 the cream over in the
beginning and baste often. When half done pour in the remainder of the
cream and cook 1 1/2 hours.
If there is no sour cream, add 1 tablespoon of vinegar to sweet cream.
The cream makes a delicious sauce.
Soak tripe over night in salt water. Boil meat and tripe four to six
hours.
Soak and scald a pair of sweetbreads, cut into small bits; take liquor
from three dozen large oysters; add to sweetbreads with 3 tablespoons of
gravy from the roast beef, and 1/4 lb. of butter chopped and rolled in
flour; cook until sweetbreads are tender; add oysters; cook 5 minutes;
add 3/4 cup of cream; serve with or without toast.
Cook onion and bacon; add salt and pepper; pour over them 1/2 pint water
in which 1/2 teaspoon of extract of beef is added. Add the meat and cook
slowly one hour; then add cream with paprika to taste and simmer for two
hours. Add a few small potatoes.
Clean and cut chicken and cover with water; add a couple sprigs of
parsley; 1 bayleaf and a small onion. When chicken is almost done add
salt and pepper to suit taste.
When chicken is done place in dish or platter and add one half cup cream
to the gravy; thicken with a little blended flour and strain over
chicken.
Prepare same as for stewed chicken. When done remove chicken from bones;
now boil potatoes enough for family. Line a deep baking dish or a deep
pan with good rich paste. Sprinkle flour in bottom.
Lay in a layer of chicken; now potatoes, sprinkle with a little salt and
pepper; now cut thin strips of dough, lay across; then a layer of
chicken; then a layer of potatoes, and so on until the top of the pan is
reached; pour over all the chicken, the gravy and put a crust over all
the top and bake until well done and nicely browned.
Make little punctures in dough to allow the steam to escape.
(Unless you wear dark glasses you cannot make a success of Anti's
Favorite Hash.)
A little vitriol will add a delightful tang and a string of nonsense
should be dropped in at the last as if by accident.
Stir all together with a sharp knife because some of the tid bits will
be tough propositions.
Boil 2 or 3 strings of chicken giblets (about 1 pound) until quite
tender, drain, trim from bones and gristle and set aside.
Boil one cup rice in one quart water for fifteen minutes. Drain, put in
double boiler with broth from giblets and let boil 1 hour. Brown 1
tablespoon flour in 1 tablespoon butter and 1 teaspoon sugar, add 1
chopped onion, and boiling water until smooth and creamy, then add some
bits of chopped pickles or olives, salt, pepper, teaspoonful of vinegar
and lastly giblets, cover and let simmer for twenty minutes. Put rice
into a chop dish, serve giblets in the center. May be garnished with
tomato sauce or creamed mushrooms or pimentos.
Take two pounds spring lamb and braise light with butter size of a
walnut. Add 3 cups boiling water, 3 onions, salt and pepper, and let
simmer slowly for 1/2 hour. Then add six peeled raw potatoes and small
head of young cabbage (cut in eighths) cover closely and allow at least
an hour's slow boiling. This can be made on the stove, in the oven, or
in fireless cooker.
The flavor of this dish can be varied by the addition of two or three
tomatoes.
Clean the squab and dry thoroughly. Cut eggs fine, add parsley, parmesan
cheese and seasoning. Now stuff each squab with this stuffing, putting a
small piece of butter in each bird and sew up.
Place in a baking pan with a lump of butter and brown nicely on all
sides. Now add a little water and cover and cook slowly until well done.
While they are cooking add little onions and potato balls to the gravy.
[Illustration]
Brown a thick slice from a round of beef in a hot pan and season
carefully, adding water to make a pan gravy; add also a pint of tomato
juice and onion juice to taste; cover and simmer gently for at least an
hour and a half; turn the meat frequently, keeping the gravy in
sufficient quantity to insure that the meat shall be thoroughly moist
and thoroughly seasoned.
When served, it should be, if carefully done, very tender. The gravy may
be thickened or not, according to individual taste.
[Illustration]
Take a fine calf liver. Skin well and cut in thick slices. Season with
salt and pepper. Fry in deep fat and drain.
Chop fine two tablespoons parsley. Melt two tablespoons butter, toss in
parsley and pour at once over liver and serve.
Grind meat twice. Boil the onion with the cream and strain the onion
out. Let cool and pour over crumbs. Add parsley and butter, and make a
stiff mixture. Now add seasoning.
Mix all together by beating in the meat. If too thick add a little milk
and form into croquettes, and put in ice box.
When cool dip in beaten egg and then in crackers or bread crumbs. Fry in
deep fat.
Although many are trying to eliminate so much meat from menus on account
of its soaring cost, the person who performs hard labor must have in its
place something which contains the chief constituents of meat, protein
and fats, or the body will not respond to the demands made upon it
because of lowered vitality from lack of food elements needed.
Scientific analyses have proven that nuts contain more food value to the
pound than almost any other food product known. Ten cent's worth of
peanuts, for example, at 7 cents a pound will furnish more than twice
the protein and six times more energy than could be obtained by the same
outlay for a porterhouse steak at 25 cents a pound.
One reason for the tardy appreciation of the nutritive value of nuts is
their reputation of indigestibility. The discomfort from eating them is
often due to insufficient mastication and to the fact that they are
usually eaten when not needed, as after a hearty meal or late at night,
whereas, being so concentrated, they should constitute an integral part
of the menu, rather than supplement an already abundant meal, says the
Philadelphia Ledger. They should be used in connection with more bulky
carbohydrate foods, such as vegetables, fruits, bread, crackers, etc.;
too concentrated nutriment is often the cause of digestive disturbance,
for a certain bulkiness is essential to normal assimilation.
Mix rice, nut meats, cracker crumbs; then add egg well beaten, the milk,
salt and pepper.
Turn into buttered bread pan; pour over butter, cover and bake in a
moderate oven 1 hour.
Put on hot platter and pour around same this sauce:
Cook 3 tablespoons butter with slice of onion and a few pimentos,
stirring constantly. Add 3 tablespoons flour; stir, pour in gradually
1 1/2 cups milk.
Season and strain.
[Illustration]
Nut hash is a good breakfast dish. Chop fine cold boiled potatoes and
any other vegetable which is on hand and put into buttered frying pan,
heat quickly and thoroughly, salt to taste, and just before removing
from the fire stir in lightly a large spoonful of peanut meal for each
person to be served. To prepare the meal at home, procure raw nuts,
shell them and put in the oven just long enough to loosen the brown
skin; rub these off and put the nuts through the grinder adjusted to
make meal rather than an oily mixture. This put in glass jars, and kept
in a cool place will be good for weeks. It may too, be used for
thickening soups or sauces, or may be added in small quantities to
breakfast muffins and griddle-cakes.
Potato soup, cream of pea, corn or asparagus and bean soup may be made
after the ordinary recipes, omitting the butter and flour and adding
four tablespoons of peanut meal.
Nut turkey for Thanksgiving instead of the national bird, made by mixing
one quart of sifted dry bread crumbs with one pint of chopped English
walnuts--any other kind of nuts will go--and one cupful of peanuts,
simply washed and dried, and adding a level teaspoon of sage, two of
salt, a tablespoon of chopped parsley, two raw eggs, not beaten, and
sufficient water to bind the mass together. Then form into the shape of
a turkey, with pieces of macaroni to form the leg bones. Brush with a
little butter and bake an hour in a slow oven and serve with drawn
butter sauce.
A dinner roast made of nuts and cheese contains the elements of meat.
Cook two tablespoons of chopped onion in a tablespoon of butter and a
little water until it is tender, then mix with it one cupful each of
grated cheese, chopped English walnuts and bread crumbs, salt and pepper
to taste and the juice of half a lemon; moisten with water, using that
in which the onion has been cooked; put into a shallow baking dish and
brown in the oven.
Hickory nut loaf is another dish which can take the place of meat at
dinner. Mix two cups of rolled oats, a cupful each of celery and milk,
two cups of bread crumbs and two eggs, season and shape, then bake 20
minutes. Serve with a gravy made like other gravy, with the addition of
a teaspoon of rolled nuts.
On a crisp winter morning a dish of nut scrapple is very appetizing and
just as nutritious as that made of pork. To make it, take two cupfuls of
cornmeal, one of hominy and a tablespoon of salt and cook in a double
boiler, with just enough boiling water until it is of the consistency of
frying. While still hot add two cupfuls of nut meats which had been put
through the chopper; pour into buttered pan and use like other scrapple.
Peanut omelet is a delicious way to serve nuts. Make a cream sauce with
one tablespoon of butter, two tablespoons of flour and three-quarters of
a cupful of flour and three-quarters of a cupful of milk poured in
slowly. Take from the fire, season, add three-quarters of a cupful of
ground peanuts and pour the mixture on the lightly beaten yolks of three
eggs. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites, pour into a hot baking dish and
bake for 20 minutes.
1 1/2 cups of walnut meats will do. 1/4 lb. of the meats is 1 1/2 cups.
A 1/4 lb. of the meats equals 1/2 lb. in the shells and the labor of
shelling is saved.
Melt butter and pour over mixture, salt, then add enough milk to
moisten, so as to form the shape of a loaf of bread. Too little milk
will cause the loaf to separate, likewise, too much will make it mushy.
Chop walnuts exceedingly fine. Bake between 20 to 30 minutes in buttered
bread pan or baking dish. A small slice goes very far as it is solid and
rich. Serve with hot tomato sauce.
This makes a delicious luncheon dish, served with peas and a nice
salad.
Oatmeal nut loaf can be served cold in place of meat for Sunday night
tea. Put two cups of water in a sauce pan; when boiling add a cupful of
oatmeal, stirring until thick; then stir in a cupful of peanuts that
have been twice through the grinder, two tablespoons of salt, half a
teaspoon of butter, and pack into a tin bucket with a tight fitting lid
and steam for two hours; slice down when cold. This will keep several
days if left in the covered tin and kept in a cool place. A delicious
sandwich filling can be made from chopped raisins and nuts mixed with a
little orange or lemon juice. Cooked prunes may be used instead of
raisins.
Bake the potatoes in a slow oven. When perfectly cold slice rather thin.
Put into a pan, sprinkle on a little flour and toss the potatoes about
with your hand until some flour adheres to each piece. Cover these
floured potatoes with small bits of butter. If the butter is put in in
one piece the potatoes get broken before the butter reaches them all.
Sprinkle in a little salt and put in enough cream so that they are about
half covered. If you use more cream they will cook too tender and be
mushy before the cream is cooked down. Stand by them. Stir with a knife
blade lifting them from the bottom but not turning them over.
When they begin to glisten lift them to a hot serving dish and put them
where they will keep warm but will not cook any further.
If you have not cream add a little more butter but the cream is better
than the butter.
[Illustration]
Wash and pare the potatoes and cut into any desired shape. Drain well.
Fry in smoking fat until nicely browned, then drain on browned paper.
Season well and serve.
Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes and make a cream dressing. Butter
the baking dish, put in a layer of potatoes and then a layer of the
dressing, then sprinkle with a little parmesan cheese; now a layer of
potatoes and then a layer of dressing and then cheese, put in oven and
allow them to brown.
Pare sweet or white potatoes and boil as for mashed potatoes. When done
and mashed add a good lump of butter and season well; add a little hot
milk, form into croquettes and dip into beaten egg, then in bread or
cracker crumbs. Cook in deep fat. Garnish with parsley.
Cook potatoes with chopped onion. Drain and add pimentos cut fine. Pour
white sauce over; stir in cheese; bake in a moderate oven.
Boil some sweet potatoes and ripe chestnuts separately, adding a little
sugar to the water in which the chestnuts are boiled.
Mash all well together and add some cream and butter and beat until
light. Then place for a minute or two in the oven to brown.
Cut cold boiled potatoes into tiny dice of uniform size. Put two great
spoonfuls of butter into the frying pan and fry two sliced onions in
this for three minutes. With a skimmer remove the onions and turn the
potatoes into the hissing butter. Toss and turn with a fork, that the
dice may not become brown. When hot, add a teaspoon of finely chopped
parsley and cook a minute longer. Remove the potatoes from the pan with
a perforated spoon, that the fat may drip from them. Serve very hot.
Wash good sized potatoes. Bake them and cut off tops with a sharp knife,
and with a teaspoon scoop out the inside of each potato. Put this in a
bowl with two ounces of butter, the yolks of two eggs, salt to taste,
pepper and sugar.
To be served with German Pot Roast or Beef a la mode.
Mix eggs with grated raw potatoes, add bread crumbs and butter, lastly
grated boiled potatoes and salt, mix flour with the hands while forming
dumplings size of large egg, drop at once into boiling salted water.
Boil twenty minutes, drain, lay on platter and sprinkle with fried
chopped onions, bread crumbs browned in butter.
Peel and grate 8 large potatoes, one onion, mix at once with two or
three eggs (before potatoes have time to discolor). Have spider very hot
with plenty of hot fat.
Drop into flat cakes 3 in. in diameter, fry crisp brown on one side then
turn and fry second side. Serve immediately with apple sauce or stewed
fruit of any kind.
(Luncheon Dish.)
Boil the sausages ten minutes, then skin and chop fine. Hollow your
tomatoes using about 1/2 cup of the solid parts, chopping fine. Mix all
thoroughly then heap into the tomato shells. Put large tablespoon butter
in baking pan and bake about 20 minutes in hot oven.
Green peppers and sausages can be omitted if so preferred.
This stuffed tomato served with bread and butter can be used as a first
course instead of bouillon and also can be used as a substitute for
meat.
Wash tomatoes, do not peel, slice piece from top of each and scoop out a
little of the tomato. Cut peppers in two lengthwise and remove
seeds--place in cold water.
Now put onion and peppers through meat chopper, sprinkle a little sugar
and a little salt over each tomato and place in good sized baking dish;
now put ground onion and ground peppers on top of tomato.
Put butter in skillet and when melted, not brown, stir in flour until a
paste is formed, now add gradually the milk as you would for cream
dressing, stir constantly.
The dressing must be very thick to allow for the water from the
tomatoes. Put this sauce around the tomatoes, not on top and place in a
moderate oven to bake about one hour slow. Serve if possible in the same
dish in which it was baked as it is very attractive.
[Illustration]
Fry in ham or bacon, 1 onion; add 1 cup tomatoes, 1 sprig thyme, 1 clove
garlic--parsley. Add beans and 1 cup water. Cook 1 1/2 hours.
Cut beans lengthwise very thin. Put butter and bacon fat in saucepan.
Cut up onion and let it fry to a light brown. Then wash beans and put
them in the fat. Add garlic and tomatoes, (cut up) and thyme--a little
salt and a little water. Cook.
1 large or two small egg-plants; two cucumbers; four onions; six
tomatoes; 1 green pepper.
Peel and cut separately all vegetables; fry sliced onions in a teaspoon
of lard; add tomatoes, crushing them and stirring until quite soft; add
half a teaspoon of salt, then the cucumber, egg-plant, and green pepper,
stirring over a hot fire for ten minutes; place over a slow fire and
stew for three hours.
If the vegetables are fresh and tender, nothing else is needed, but if
they are somewhat dry, add a cupful of stock.
Cold barbouillade is excellent to spread on bread for sandwiches.
Barbouillade is usually served hot with rice boiled a la Creole.
Wash very thoroughly one cupful of rice; boil for twenty minutes in
three quarts of boiling water; drain and shake well, pour cold water
over the rice to separate the grains, and set in the oven a few minutes
to keep hot.
Wash thoroughly, then throw into cold water and bring to boiling point;
then add 1/4 teaspoon of soda and boil 5 minutes. Turn into colander,
let cold water run over it, drain well, squeezing out water with spoon,
then chop very fine; add creamed butter, salt and pepper.
Heat again thoroughly, then serve with hard boiled eggs sliced on top.
Boil spaghetti twenty-five minutes in salt water, drain, and run cold
water over it to separate.
While the spaghetti is boiling make sauce as follows: put the butter in
the skillet and when hot put in the onion and let brown. Then add the
tomatoes, meat, water, salt, pepper, sugar and cook thoroughly for one
and one-half hours. Then add flour mixed with a little water; thicken to
the consistency of cream; strain.
Take baking dish and place a layer of spaghetti, then a layer of sauce,
then sprinkle this with the cheese, continue until the pan is filled,
allowing cheese to be on the top.
Bake one-half hour in a moderate oven.
Soak beans over night in luke warm water with soda. In morning pour off
water and wash in cold water. Now place salt pork in bottom of bean
crock and put layers of beans on top, sprinkle with pepper and salt,
when filled nearly to top put on slices of bacon.
Now blend mustard with vinegar, now add molasses and catsup and pour
over the beans and fill up and over the top with luke warm water. Bake
in a slow oven for at least six hours, longer if necessary.
To one pound of cleaned and well strained mushrooms, add 1/4 lb. of
fresh butter. Allow mushrooms to cook in butter about five minutes.
Sprinkle enough flour to thicken.
When well mixed, pour in gently a little more than 1/2 pint of sweet
cream. Allow it to boil, add salt and pepper to taste.
[Illustration]
Put butter in a pan and allow it to melt, add onions and cook until
light brown, not dark. Now add meat and cook slowly, now add sugar, and
seasoning and tomatoes, and as it cooks down add 1 cup of water. Allow
it to cook three hours or longer, adding more water as it needs it. It
will turn dark, almost a mahogany, as it nears the finishing point. When
almost done put macaroni on in plenty of boiling salt water and cook
almost twenty minutes. Do not allow it to cook entirely. When done drain
off water. Now take baking dish, and put a layer of macaroni on bottom,
now a layer of parmesan cheese, now a layer of the tomato and meat
sauce, now a layer of cheese and repeat with macaroni, cheese, sauce,
etc., until the top is reached. Put on a generous layer of sauce and
cheese and allow it to bake about a half hour in a medium oven, being
careful that it is not too hot.
Regarding how much water to add must be determined by cook. Some times
it boils more rapidly. The sauce must not be too thin.
To serve with Macaroni Italienne the following is very fine.
Have the butcher cut a 2 pound round steak as thin as possible and
prepare the following way:
Grate the bread, cut anchovies and parsley fine. Mix all with seasoning
and cheese and spread on steak. Now place the eggs which have been
boiled hard, peel, and allow to remain whole on top of bread crumbs,
etc. Place at equal distance from each other, and roll up and bind with
skewers or cord. Put this into the pot with the tomato and meat sauce
and allow it to cook until the sauce is done, at which time the meat
roll will also be ready to serve. Place the roll on a dish and cut in
slices.
This, with a light salad, is sufficient for a dinner.
Cook a cup of rice in rapidly boiling, salted water until almost ready
for the table. Drain, mix with a pint of white sauce, pour into a baking
dish, cover with slices of cheese, and bake in a moderate oven twenty
minutes.
The white sauce may also be flavored with cheese.
Prepare rice as above, and mingle with white sauce; add half a cup of
chopped nuts--pecans or hickory nuts preferred; sprinkle a few chopped
nuts over surface, and brown in quick oven.
Boil four large carrots until tender; drain and rub through a sieve, add
one cupful of thick white sauce, mix well and season to taste. When
cold, shape into croquettes, and fry same as other croquettes.
Two soup plates of grated potatoes which have been boiled in the skins
the day before. Add four tablespoons flour or bread crumbs, a little
nutmeg and salt, one-half cup of melted butter and the yolks of four
eggs and one cupful croutons (fried bread--in butter--cut into small
cubes).
Mix together, then add the beaten whites of the eggs. Mix well and form
into balls, then boil in boiling salt water about fifteen or twenty
minutes. Serve with bacon cut into small squares on top.
To be eaten with stewed dried fruits cooked together--prunes, apricots,
apples.
To take the place of the roast on a meatless menu, try the following:
Soak and boil one-half pint of dried beans to make a pint of pulp,
putting it through a colander to remove the skins. Take small can of
tomato soup and to this allow a pint of nuts ground, two raw eggs, half
a cup of flour browned, one small onion minced and a tablespoon of
parsley, also minced. Season to taste with sage, sweet marjoram, celery
salt, pepper and paprika and mix the whole well, stirring in half a cup
of sweet milk. Put into a well-greased baking tin and brown for 20
minutes in a quick oven. Serve hot on a flat dish as you would a roast
with brown gravy or tomato sauce.
[Illustration]
that are worth remembering.
A hot savory and a cold salad make a good combination for the summer
luncheon, and the savory is a useful dish for the disposition of
left-over scraps of meat, fish, etc.
The foundation of a savory is usually a triangle or a finger of buttered
brown bread toast, or fried bread, pastry or biscuit. The filling may be
varied indefinitely, and its arrangement depends upon available
materials.
Here are a few suggestions for the use of materials common to all
households.
Half an ounce of butter, two ounces of grated cheese, one tablespoon of
tomato; paprika. Melt the butter and add the tomato (either canned or
fresh stewed), then the grated cheese; sprinkle with paprika and heat on
the stove. Cut bread into rounds or small squares, fry and pour over
each slice the hot tomato mixture.
Mince a little left-over boiled ham very finely. Warm it in a pan with a
piece of butter. Add a little pepper and paprika. When very hot pile on
hot buttered toast. Any left-over scraps of fish or meat may be used up
in a similar way, and make an excellent savory to serve with a green
salad.
Butter slices of bread and sprinkle over them a mixture of grated cheese
and paprika. Set them in a pan and place the pan in the oven, leaving it
there until the bread is colored, and the cheese set. Serve very hot.
Sardines, one hard boiled egg, brown bread, parsley. Cut the brown bread
into strips and butter them. Remove the skin and the bones from the
sardines and lay one fish on each finger of the bread. Chop the white of
the egg into fine pieces and rub the yolk through a strainer. Chop the
parsley very fine and decorate each sardine with layers of the white,
the yolk and the chopped parsley. Season with pepper and salt.
These make a more substantial dish, and are delicious when served with a
celery salad: Six oysters, six slices of bacon, fried bread, seasoning.
Cut very thin strips of bacon that can be purchased already shaved is
best for the purpose. Season the oysters with pepper and salt, and wrap
each in a slice of the bacon, pinning it together with a wooden splint
(a toothpick). Place each oyster on a round of toast or of fried bread,
and cook in the oven for about five minutes. Serve very hot, and
sprinkle with pepper.
Fry until crisp a quarter pound of salt pork. Put into the pan with it a
medium-sized onion, minced fine and brown. All this to three cupfuls of
boiled rice; mix in two green peppers seeded and chopped, and a cupful
of tomato sauce. Season all to taste with salt and pepper, turn into a
buttered baking dish, sprinkle with fine breadcrumbs and small pieces of
butter. Brown.
A most delicious relish is made with Roquefort cheese, the size of a
walnut, rubbed in with equal quantity of butter, moistened with sherry
(lemon juice will serve if sherry be not available), and seasoned with
salt, pepper, celery salt, and paprika; then squeezed into the troughs
of a dozen slender, succulent sticks of celery. This is a very
appropriate prelude to a dinner of roast duck.
Soak the magic yeast cake in a little luke warm water. Add a little
flour to this, and let it stand an hour. Boil the potatoes in 2 quarts
water: when soft put through sieve and then set aside to cool in the
potato water. Add to this the lard, salt and sugar.
About 4 in the afternoon put the liquid in large bread riser. Add about
3 quarts of flour, beat thoroughly for at least 10 minutes; now add
dissolved yeast to it; let sponge rise until going to bed and then
stiffen. Knead until dough does not stick to the hands about 20 to 25
minutes. It will double in size. In morning put in bread pans and let
rise one hour or more. Bake in moderately hot oven one hour.
Many persons prefer stiffening the bread in the morning. In this case
set the sponge later in the evening and allow it to rise all night,
stiffening with the flour in the morning instead of the evening. Of
course this allows the baking to be rather late in the day.
[Illustration]
Two cupfuls of white flour (sifted), two cupfuls of graham or entire
wheat flour (sifted if one chooses), one-half cup of New Orleans
molasses, little salt, two cupfuls of milk or water, one cupful of
walnut meats (cut up fine), one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in milk,
about two tablespoons melted butter. Let raise 20 minutes. Bake about
one hour in moderate oven.
Put in double boiler 2 cups of milk and 1/2 cup of cream. When this
reaches boiling point salt to taste. While stirring constantly sift in
1/2 cup of white corn meal (this is best). Boil 5 minutes still
stirring, then add 1 tablespoon of butter and from 2 to 5 well beaten
eggs (beaten separately) 1 for each person is a good rule.
Pour into a greased baking dish and bake in a quick oven until brown
like a custard. It must be eaten hot with butter and is a good breakfast
dish.
Bake until thoroughly done.
[Illustration]
Dr. Wiley urges house wives to grind their own wheat flour and corn
meal, using the coffee grinder for the work. The degree of fineness of
flour is regulated by frequent grindings.
The improvement in flavor and freshness of cakes, breads and mush made
from home ground wheat and corn will absolutely prove a revelation.
[Illustration]
Take an iron kettle, put in two quarts water with one tablespoon salt.
Heat and before boiling, slowly pour in your corn meal, stirring
continuously until you have it very stiff. Put on lid and let boil for
an hour or more. Turn out in a pan and keep warm. Later this is turned
out on a platter for the table.
Cut it in pieces of about an inch wide for each plate and on this the
following sauce is added with a teaspoon Parmesan cheese added to each
piece.
Brown a good sized onion in two tablespoons butter, add 1/2 clove of
garlic, about 5 pieces of dried mushroom, being well soaked in water
(use the water also) dissolve a little extract of beef, pouring that
into this with a little more water, salt and some paprika--a pinch of
sugar and 1/3 teaspoon vinegar.
A little flour to make a nice gravy. This makes it very palatable.
It takes about ten minutes to cook.
Serve in gravy bowl--a spoonful on each piece of Polenta. Added to that
the grated cheese, is all that is needed for a whole meal. Apple sauce
should be served with this dish.
Mix the dry ingredients together. Bake in rather quick oven.
Let rise 30 minutes. Bake one hour.
(always to be taken with a grain of salt.)
Good for 365 days in the year.
Sift all dry ingredients--sugar, flour, meal, salt and baking powder.
Beat yolks and add milk, stir into dry materials. Now beat whites stiff
and add. Lastly stir in melted butter. Bake in greased pans about twenty
to thirty minutes.
Bake 1 hour and a quarter in a moderate oven. Stir in soda, dissolved,
last thing, beating well. This makes 2 small loaves.
Pour a little boiling water over 1 quart of meal to scald it. Add a
little salt and stir in yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 tablespoon of
lard and butter melted. Add the whites last, well beaten.
Bake in a moderate oven till well done--almost an hour.
Beat the eggs very light; then gradually mix in the milk, flour and
salt; add melted butter.
Pour into the waffle iron and bake at once.
Grease irons well and do not put in too much batter.
Two cupfuls of flour, two heaping teaspoons of baking powder, one-half
teaspoon of salt and one cupful of sweet milk. Stir and drop in small
spoonfuls into plenty of water, in which meat is boiling. Boil with
cover off for fifteen minutes, then put cover on and boil ten minutes
longer. These are very fine with either beef or chicken.
[Illustration]
Beat the eggs very light; melt the butter in the milk; add a little
flour and a little milk until all is mixed; then add yeast before all
the milk and flour are added.
Make into rolls and bake in a pan.
This should be made up at night and set to rise, and baked the next
morning.
Make up at night and in morning drop from spoon into pan. Bake in a
quick oven.
Dissolve soda in couple teaspoonfuls hot water.
Bake in slow oven and leave in pan until cold.
Bake in gem pans. Greatly improved by adding nuts and raisins.
Beat 2 eggs until light, add 1/2 cup of sugar, 1/2 cup molasses, 3/4 cup
thick sour cream, the grated rind of 1/2 lemon, 1 saltspoon of salt, 1
teaspoon cinnamon, 1 tablespoon ginger, and finally, add 2 cups of well
sifted flour mixed with 1 1/2 teaspoons soda (level).
Bake in gem pans. If desired add nuts and raisins which improves them
very much.
(With apologies to the English Suffragists)
A bit of hot water in which soda is dissolved.
Put flour in a basin, and rub in butter, and dry ingredients; then, soda
and water; pour in treacle, and knead to smooth paste. Roll quite thin
and cut in oblongs. Bake about 1/4 hour.
Beat the eggs to a froth, put in the rice and flour, bake on rather hot
griddle greased with butter--eat with sugar and cinnamon.
Very good for a dyspeptic.
A good breakfast toast is made by dipping the slices of bread in a pint
of milk to which a beaten egg and a pinch of salt are added, and
frying.
Here is a sour cream filling for cake: Mix equal quantities of thick,
sour cream, chopped nuts and raisins. Add a little sugar and lemon
juice, enough to give the proper taste, and spread between layers of
cake.
*       *       *       *       *
Many kinds of cookies can be made with sour milk. Here is the recipe for
a good sort: Cream half a cup of butter with a cup of sugar and add a
cup of sour milk in which three-quarters of a teaspoon of soda has been
dissolved, and two cups or a little more of flour, sifted with half a
teaspoon of cloves, half a teaspoon of cinnamon and a teaspoon of salt.
Chill the dough before cutting the cookies. It must be rolled thin.
*       *       *       *       *
Corn bread can be made with sour milk in this way: Sift a cup of
cornmeal with half a cup of flour, half a teaspoon of salt, a tablespoon
of shortening (clear chicken fat that has been fried out is a good
kind), and then add a cupful of sour milk and a beaten egg. Lastly, add
half a teaspoon of soda. It is well to add the soda last, where a light
mixture is desired, as it begins to give off carbon dioxide, the gas
that makes the dough rise, as soon as it is moist and comes in contact
with the acid of the sour milk.
*       *       *       *       *
Graham bread made with sour milk in this way is delicious: Sift together
a cup and a half of graham flour and one of white. Add a cup of broken
nut meats and a teaspoon of salt. Then stir in half a cup of milk and a
cup and a half of sour milk, and, lastly, add a teaspoon of soda. The
soda may be sifted into a little of the white flour and added last, if
adding it with the flour is easier.
Beat the yolks of four eggs with 1 cup sugar to a cream, to which add 1
tablespoon of mocha extract (Cross and Blackwell's). Beat whites stiff
and fold them in with 3/4 cup of flour and 1 teaspoon baking powder.
Bake in 2 layers in oven.
3/4 pint cream well whipped, to which add 1 1/2 tablespoons mocha
extract. Sugar to taste. Ice top with boiled icing flavored with one
tablespoon of mocha extract.
Beat all together and boil until it jellies. For orange cake use oranges
instead of lemons.
Boil until it will make a ball in cold water. Then beat until thick
enough to spread on cake. Flavor with vanilla.
Juice and grated rind of an orange or lemon. Let it come to a boil.
Old English Recipe, year 1600
Coffee cup is used for measure.
Cream butter and sugar, stir in yolks, beat hard for 5 minutes, add
water, then flour, mix the tartar in it--then nuts, then beaten whites
of eggs. Bake 3/4 of an hour if loaf, or half hour if divided into two
portions or layers.
Boil water and sugar until it threads. Pour over the beaten whites of 4
eggs. Beat until almost cold then add citric acid dissolved in one
teaspoon boiling water, flavor with vanilla and spread between layers
and over cake.
This keeps a long time in a locked closet.
Cream butter; add sugar. Separate eggs; beat and add. Then flour to
roll.
Grate the cocoanut, beat the butter and sugar to a cream; beat the eggs
until very dry and light; mix well together and bake on pie crusts
rolled very thin. This amount will make four large tarts.
(a la Kennedy)
Beat the eggs until light--not stiff; sift sugar 7 times, add to eggs,
beating as little as possible. Sift flour 9 times, using only the
cupful, discarding the extra flour; then put in the flour the cream of
tartar; add this to the eggs and sugar; now the vanilla. Put in angel
cake pan with feet. Put in oven with very little heat. Great care must
be used in baking this cake to insure success. Light the oven when you
commence preparing material. After the first 10 minutes in oven,
increase heat and continue to do so every five minutes until the last 4
or 5 minutes, when strong heat must be used. At thirty minutes remove
cake and invert pan allowing to stand thus until cold.
[Illustration]
About six o'clock in the evening soak a cake of yeast in a little luke
warm water, make sponge with a little flour, water and yeast. Let rise
until light, about an hour.
Melt butter and lard and cream with sugar and salt; add luke warm milk
and some flour, then stir in sponge and gradually add more flour until
stiff, not as stiff as bread dough. Do not knead, simply stiffen.
Let rise until morning, then simply put in square or round cake pans
about one and one-half inches thick. Do not roll, just mold with the
hands and let rise about an hour.
Cover with little lumps of butter, then sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon
and bake twenty minutes. Thin slices of apples can be placed on top,
also peaches or almonds, blanched and chipped.
This is the genuine German cinnamon cake, and is excellent.
Boil raisins in 1 1/2 cups water twenty minutes.
Mix shortening, sugar, lemon rind, eggs and spices, add one cup flour
then raisins drained but still hot. Then the other two cups flour and
1/2 cup of the water in which the raisins were boiled to which add 1
teaspoon bi-carbonate soda.
Bake in gem pans in moderate oven. This makes 30 cakes which can be iced
with white or chocolate icing.
Bake 20 or 30 minutes according to oven.
Follow Solomon's advice for making good boys, and you will have a good
cake.
Soak yeast in a little warm water and some of the milk 10 minutes, then
set a sponge and let it stand about 1 hour (before breakfast); cream
butter; add sugar and beat thoroughly; beat the 4 eggs light and add
gradually to creamed butter and sugar; now add the other 1/2 pint of
milk.
Beat well and add the raisins, dredge with a little flour; now add
sponge and beat all thoroughly for 1/2 hour till it drops from the spoon
a little thicker than a sweet cake.
Grease your pan with butter and take the split almonds and stick them on
the side of the pan. Bake nearly an hour.
This makes 2 small cakes or one large one. Very fine German Coffee Cake.
You should use a pan with a tube in the center.
Add sugar gradually and yolks of eggs beaten until thick, add lemon
colored extract. Mix and sift flour and baking powder and add
alternately with milk to first mixture.
Make in two layers and when ready to serve put grated pineapple on each
layer of cake. Whip half a pint of cream, sweeten to taste and put over
pineapples.
(Bananas can be used instead of pineapples).
Add ginger to taste--about 4 level teaspoons, also lemon extract or
grated rind and juice if preferred.
Put flour, sugar and butter together and rub thoroughly. Make hole in
center and pour in the molasses in which the soda has been beaten in.
Stir all well together, break off enough to roll out; cut, space in pan
and bake in very moderate oven.
These keep well, especially in stone crock. This recipe makes a quantity
if cut with small cutter.
Cream butter and sugar to finest possible consistency. Add 1/4 of the
flour and beat well. Have eggs beaten to a froth. Add a few tablespoons
at a time and beat thoroughly after each addition of egg. When eggs are
all in, add balance of flour and flavoring and beat.
Bake in a slow oven one and one-half hours.
Hints:--Secret of fine pound cake is in the mixing, much beating being
essential.
One-half the recipe serves fifteen persons amply.
A paler yellow cake can be had by substituting the whites of two eggs
for every yolk discarded.
In the full recipe not more than four yolks should be discarded.
A very little lemon combined with vanilla or almond, improves the flavor
of the cake.
Bake, if possible, in an old-fashioned tin pan with a center tube.
Mix eggs, sugar and butter; add sour milk or buttermilk with soda
dissolved. Then stir in flour with baking powder added.
Do not roll too thin.
Have lard boiling when you drop in the doughnuts. A slice of raw potato
in the lard will prevent the lard taste.
[Illustration: (Handwritten note:)
"We bear and rear and agonize. Well, if we are fit for that, we are fit
to have a voice in the fate of the man we bear. If we can bring forth
the man for the nation, we can sit with you in your councils and shape
the destiny of the nation and say whether it is for war or peace we give
the sons we bear." ~Joan in "War Brides."~
[Illustration]
Dissolve soda in boiling water and pour over chocolate and let cool.
Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs and other things. Bake in
layers.
This makes two good sized cakes, or four layers.
Cream the sugar and butter. Add the well beaten yolks; then the whites;
then the flour well sifted with the baking powder. Beat until smooth;
add milk, then dates. Beat thoroughly and bake three-quarters of an hour
in a steady, but not too hot oven.
In place of the soda and cream of tartar 3 teaspoons of baking powder
can be used.
Bake in a slow oven.
One large cup chopped hickory nuts and sprinkle a little salt and flour
with them. This makes two layers.
Bake on the underside of a pan in a slow oven. This makes 20 cakes.
[Illustration]
Cream butter, add sugar and eggs. To this add vanilla and baking powder,
and when these are thoroughly mixed, stir in the oats. This should make
a stiff batter, and more oats may be added if batter is not stiff
enough.
Mold into little cakes with a teaspoon and bake in buttered pans two
inches apart, for ten minutes.
Arrange marshmallows on thin, unsweetened round crackers. Make a deep
impression in center of each marshmallow, and in each cavity drop 1/4
teaspoon butter. Bake until marshmallows spread and nearly cover
crackers. After removing from oven insert half a candied cherry in each
cavity.
These are excellent with afternoon tea.
Bake in a slow oven.
Cream one-fourth of a cupful of butter, three-fourths of a cupful of
sugar, one egg; add one cupful of milk, two and one-half cupfuls of
flour in which two teaspoons of baking powder have been sifted. Beat
smooth, then add as many raisins as desired and bake in two pie tins.
When the top has begun to crust over, brush with melted butter and
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Bake a golden brown.
One pound of granulated sugar, three-quarters of a pound of butter, one
pound of flour, one pound of almonds blanched and split, and three eggs.
Cream butter and sugar till very light, add the yolks of the three eggs
and the whites of two. Add the flour; roll on the board and cut in
oblong or diamond shapes. Beat the white of the remaining egg and bake.
Milk enough to make a stiff dough. Roll very thin, cut out and brush
over with beaten egg and milk mixed together. Put two or three blanched
almonds on each tart and dust with cinnamon and sugar.
Bake in moderate oven.
[Illustration]
Drop on greased pan and bake.
Dissolve soda in tablespoon hot water. Flour enough to make a stiff
batter, drop in small cakes with teaspoon and bake in slow oven.
Cream sugar with butter. Add the yolks of the 4 eggs and beat well. Add
juice and rind of lemon. Then flour, into which has been sifted the
baking powder. Sift flour and baking powder twice before adding to
mixture. Use enough flour to make a very stiff batter, add cocoanut, and
last, fold in the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth.
Drop on buttered tins and bake in moderate oven.
First bake a shell as for lemon pie, then make a filling as follows: Mix
one tablespoon of cornstarch in a little cold water, and over this pour
one cupful of boiling water. To this add the juice of two grapefruits,
the grated rind and juice of one orange, the beaten yolks of two eggs,
and the white of one, and a small piece of butter. Put all in the double
boiler and cook until thick, stirring all the time. When done, put in
the shell. Now beat up the white of the second egg with one-half a
cupful of sugar until thick, and spread with a knife over the pie. Put
in the oven and let brown lightly. Serve cold. This makes a delicious
pie.
The yolks of three eggs, one and one-half cupfuls of sugar, one cupful
of cream, two tablespoons of flour, two-thirds of a cupful of butter,
one teaspoon of spice, cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg.
Mix the flour and sugar together, then cream with the butter. Add the
yolks of the eggs, beating thoroughly. Next add cream and spices. Use
the whites for the frosting.
Scald milk; beat eggs; add sugar; pour into milk, beating constantly, 1
tablespoon of cornstarch and 1 tablespoon flour (rounded).
Bake crust; beat whites; add 1 teaspoon sugar, cover with cocoanut
browned lightly; now cover with whipped cream and cream nuts.
One level cup of flour, one-half cup of lard, one-half teaspoon salt,
one-fourth cup ice cold water, one teaspoon baking powder. Mix salt,
baking powder and flour thoroughly, chop in the lard, add water. Use as
little flour as possible when rolling out. This makes a light, crisp,
flaky and delicious pie crust.
Mix the crust with tact and velvet gloves, using no sarcasm, especially
with the upper crust. Upper crusts must be handled with extreme care for
they quickly sour if manipulated roughly.
*       *       *       *       *
Sigmund Spaeth, in his "Operatic Cook Book, in Life," gives this recipe
for the making of the opera "Pagliacci."
Beat a large bass drum with the white of one clown. Then mix with a
prologue and roll very thin. Fill with a circus just coming to town. One
leer, one scowl and one tragical grin. Bake in a sob of Carusian size.
Result: the most toothsome of Italy's pies.
Grate apple; add orange, sugar, butter and yolks. Beat whites and add
lastly. Bake slowly in open shells.
Make a pie crust and line 4 pie pans. Put soda in the molasses and heat
thoroughly, then add the boiling water. Divide in the four pans. Mix
flour, sugar and butter together for the crumbs and put on top of the
syrup.
Bake in moderate oven.
Cook until waxy looking, then take the yolks of 2 eggs and 1 heaping
tablespoon of flour and 1 1/2 cupfuls milk. Mix all together smooth. Add
to the above ingredients. Cook until thick and add vanilla. Have a baked
crust, use the whites beaten stiff for the top. Return to the oven for a
minute or two.
Handle as little as possible; roll thin and cut with cutter 6 inches in
diameter.
Mix well and cook to consistency of custard, and fill the pastry which
is turned up and made into the shape of a tart.
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
[Illustration: Handwritten note:
My favourite pudding:
Boil the milk. Mix the flour with a little cold milk. Pour the boiling
milk onto this and put all back into the saucepan. Let it boil up once
more and it is ready. Serve at once.
PASTE
MIXTURE
Make the paste, roll quite thin, and line an ashet; spread bottom with
jam; pour on top above mixture, prepared as follows:--melt butter, add
sugar, flour, and beat well, then the water, and fruit juice; finally,
the eggs, well beaten.
Bake for about 1/2 an hour. Serve, of course, cold.
Put in buttered pudding dish and steam 3 hours.
Pick out and wash prunes; then soak 1 hour in cold water, and boil until
soft; remove stones; obtain meat from stones and add to prunes; then add
sugar, cinnamon, boiling water, and simmer ten minutes.
Dilute corn starch with enough cold water to pour easily; add to prune
mixture and cook five minutes. Remove cinnamon; mould; then chill and
serve with whipped cream.
[Illustration]
Mix suet, chopped fine, raisins and sugar, then add flour and baking
powder, add milk and steam three hours. Serve with sauce.
Put suet through meat grinder or food chopper, fine blade. Sift flour,
salt, baking powder and rub suet into flour well. Beat eggs lightly, add
milk and stir into mixture. Butter mold and fill 3/4 full and steam
three hours. This quantity makes two good sized puddings.
It is very nice made without the eggs and using one-half the quantity.
Fill a deep pudding dish or pan with fruit, apples or peaches, dropping
the suet pudding over the fruit in large spoonsfull and steam 1 1/2
hours.
Cream well together 2 teaspoons butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 1/2 cup
milk, 1/4 teaspoon salt and 1-3/4 cups flour. Beat well and add two
scant teaspoons baking powder, then turn into shallow, well-buttered
pan, the bottom of which has been covered with fresh fruit of any kind.
Bake in moderate oven one-half hour. Serve with cream or sauce.
One-half pound of prunes, three tablespoons of powdered sugar, four
eggs, a small teaspoon of vanilla. Beat the yolks of the eggs and the
sugar to a cream, add the vanilla and mix them with the prunes. The
prunes should first be stewed and drained, the stones removed, and each
prune cut into four pieces. When ready to serve, fold in lightly the
stiffly whipped whites of the eggs, having added a dash of salt to the
whites before whipping.
Turn it into a pudding dish and bake in a moderate oven for 20 minutes.
Serve very hot directly it is taken from the oven.
Free suet from strings and chop fine. Seed raisins, chop fine and dredge
with flour. Cream suet and sugar; beat in the yolks when whipped smooth
and light; next put in milk; then flour and crumbs alternately with
beaten whites; then brandy and spice, and lastly the fruit well dredged
with flour. Mix all thoroughly. Take well buttered bowls filled to the
top with the mixture and steam five hours. (This pudding will keep a
long time).
When cold cover with cheesecloth and tie with cord around the rim of the
bowl. Steam again one hour before using. Use wine or brandy sauce. When
on the table pour a little brandy or rum over the top of the pudding and
set fire to it. This adds much to the flavor.
Cream together the yolks of five (5) eggs and four (4) tablespoons of
sugar. Add the grated rind of one (1) lemon and the juice of one and
one-half (1 1/2) lemons. Dissolve 1 teaspoon of gelatine in a very
little water, while hot stir into the pudding. Let stand till it
thickens, then add the beaten whites of the eggs. Serve in individual
sherbet cups.
[Illustration]
Cream two tablespoons of butter until soft, add one tablespoon of lemon
juice and a little nutmeg, then beat in enough sifted confectioner's
sugar to make a light, fluffy mass. Let it harden a little before
serving.
Score and cut corn fine--scraping the last off cob. Put the butter in
the hot rice. First mix rice and corn well together, then beat in the
custard.
Salt, cinnamon, lard and nutmeg to taste. Steam three hours. Serve with
whipped cream or sauce.
[Illustration]
Chop finely one pimento, one green pepper freed from seeds, and a small
cream cheese; add a good pinch of salt and spread between slices of
buttered bread.
Butter and thinly slice white bread; make a chocolate filling exactly
like fudge, but do not allow it to boil quite to the candy stage; spread
between the slices of bread, press together and trim neatly.
Melt a tablespoon of butter with a cup of light brown sugar, and a
tablespoon of water; cook for a few moments, till well incorporated,
then spread between slices of buttered bread.
Chop candied cherries, dried figs and stoned dates together; make a
paste with a little orange juice, and spread between buttered slices of
graham bread.
Pare and slice cucumbers crosswise. Marinate in French dressing and
place between rounds of buttered bread.
Cream 2 tablespoons butter; add 1/2 teaspoon Anchovy paste; spread thin
slices of fresh toast with this; over that put slices of hard boiled or
chopped egg and on top one rolled anchovy.
Another delightful way of using sardines is as a sandwich. Beat two
ounces of butter until it is soft, then add a little salt, nutmeg,
Nepaul pepper, 2 teaspoons of tomato catsup and a few drops of lemon
juice.
Remove the skin and the backbone from three sardines, and pound them to
a paste in a mortar with the prepared butter.
Pass the mixture through a wire sieve and spread it rather thickly on
fingershaped pieces of buttered brown bread, and make into sandwiches
with a little fine cress between the bread.
Cook tomato juice until it thickens, add cheese, beef and egg last; if
the mixture is too thick, add cream.
Take bran or whole wheat bread cut thin and spread thin with peanut
butter. Wash, pare, quarter, core and slice the apples very thin spread
between the bread. Or the bread can be buttered and thin slices of apple
put between, then the apple is dusted with a little salt.
Arrange either fresh or cooked pears on lettuce leaves, and pour over
pears sweet cream dressing. Over this grate cocoanut and on top place
cherries.
Boil potatoes until soft; pare and let cool, then slice very thin; add
finely cut onions and diluted vinegar enough to mix well; add salt,
pepper and sugar, some celery cut fine and lastly olive oil.
Soak fish over night. Place in fresh water and bring to the boiling
point. Do not allow it to boil. Take out fish and shred. Remove all skin
and bones. Allow it to cool.
Add potatoes, parsley, pepper, oil and vinegar.
Work 1 cup of bread dough, 1/4 cup butter and 1/4 cup lard, using the
hands. When thoroughly blended, toss on floured board and knead, using
enough flour to prevent sticking.
Cut off pieces and roll like bread stick; shape into rings, dip upper
surface in blanched almonds that have been chopped and salted. Arrange
on buttered baking sheets.
Bake in hot oven until brown.
Boil the beans until tender in salt water, not soft, drain and let cool.
When cold add the onion, cut fine; mix the cream, vinegar, salt, sugar
and pepper and pour over beans; serve very cold on lettuce leaves.
Hard boiled eggs can be used as a garnish.
[Illustration]
Cut cabbage not too fine, heat fat in sauce pan. Wash cabbage and put
into that a little water and add onion, cut up, salt and a little
pepper. Cook about twenty minutes, then add the sugar and vinegar.
It must be sour-sweet. It is then ready to serve.
Cut off the tops of eight medium sized sweet bell peppers, saving the
tops with the stems attached; remove all the seeds and white portion
without breaking the pepper, then throw them into ice water for 30
minutes.
Mix together a cupful of minced ham and chicken, four hard boiled eggs
and a bunch of celery, chopped, and a Spanish Onion.
Moisten with dressing, fill the shells, replace the tops and serve.
To make a yellow salad use the yellower heart leaves of lettuce. On them
put diced orange pulp, dressed with French dressing and sprinkled with
chopped walnut meats. Or else scoop out the centers of small
yellow-skinned apples and fill them with a mixture of orange and apple,
dressed with mayonnaise made with lemon juice for thinning and a
flavoring of mustard.
On green, but tender leaves of lettuce, put a little mound of spinach,
which has been boiled and pressed through a sieve and mixed with French
dressing. In the center of each mound, concealed by the spinach, put a
spoonful of chopped hard-boiled egg.
Peel and boil tiny white turnips of equal size and hollow out the center
of each. Fill with cold boiled peas and mayonnaise and put on green
lettuce leaves.
Celery, potato, chicken--white meat only--white fish, blanched
asparagus--any or two of these may be used for white salad. Dress with
French dressing or with a white mayonnaise, to which the beaten white of
egg has been added and which has been thinned with vinegar.
Scoop out the inside of tomatoes. Save the slice removed from the top
for a cover and replace it on the tomato after filling it with a mixture
of celery and nut meats, mixed with mayonnaise. Place each tomato on a
white leaf of lettuce.
Strain tomato juice and mix it with equal quantity of white stock--veal
or chicken. Thicken sufficiently with gelatin and harden in molds. Serve
on white lettuce leaves, with mayonnaise that has been colored with a
little cranberry juice.
Make mayonnaise with much egg yolk in proportion to other ingredients,
and thin with cider vinegar. Dice tender carrots and arrange on lettuce
leaves, dressing with orange mayonnaise.
In Tomato Aspic--Tomato jellies with sardines should be made in ample
time to harden on ice. The aspic referred to is ordinary gelatin mixed
with soup stock instead of plain water. Remove the skin from sardines,
then split them open and take out the backbone and cut them into narrow
strips.
Mix together in equal quantities some stiff mayonnaise sauce and cool,
but liquid, aspic jelly then stir in some chopped capers and small
pieces of tomato, in the proportion of a dessertspoon of each to half a
pint of the mayonnaise and aspic mixture; and, lastly, add the sardines.
Have at hand some small tomato molds which have been rather thickly
lined with tomato aspic, fill them with the sardine mixture and leave on
ice until the jellies can be unmolded; serve each on a small leaf of
lettuce, and surround with a salad of water-cress and sliced tomatoes.
Beat well; cook in double boiler. When cold and ready to serve, fold in
1/2 pint of whipped cream.
Four large cucumbers, one small onion, half a box of gelatine soaked in
half a cup of cold water, salt and white pepper to taste. Peel the
cucumbers, cut into thick slices and place, with the sliced onion, over
the fire with a scant quart of water. Simmer for an hour, stir in the
gelatine and, when this is dissolved, season the jelly, strain it and
set aside to cool. It may be formed into small moulds and turned out on
lettuce leaves, or used in a border-mould for garnishing a fish or
tomato salad, or set to form in a salad bowl and taken out by the
spoonful and served on lettuce leaves. French dressing is better with it
than mayonnaise.
Mix dry ingredients and beaten egg. Add melted butter and vinegar. Beat
well until thoroughly mixed. Add boiling water; cook until thick. Use
level measures. If too thick use plain cream to thin.
Sift together through fine strainer three times. Put into a double
cooker two cups of milk. Beat four eggs thoroughly. Add to the milk.
Melt two tablespoons of butter and add to the milk and eggs. Then add
all the above dry sifted ingredients.
Put on fire, stirring constantly. When it begins to thicken add drop by
drop one-half teacup vinegar.
Cook until thick, which will be about twenty minutes.
Remove from fire and put in cool place.
[Illustration]
Make this carefully into a smooth and well blended mayonnaise. It will
take fully 1/2 hour, but the success of the dressing depends upon the
mayonnaise. Now stir in slowly 1/2 bottle chili sauce until well mixed
with the mayonnaise. Then chop together very fine 1 bunch of chives, 3
hard boiled eggs, 2 pimentos, 1/2 green pepper; add paprika and salt to
taste and mix well with the mayonnaise.
This will make about 1 quart of dressing. It should be kept in a cool
place and covered when not in use. It will keep a long time.
Beat yolks until creamy, add to them the mustard, salt and sugar. Beat
in slowly the butter melted, also add vinegar. Cook until it thickens.
It is best to make this in a double boiler. When cold, add 1 cup sweet
or sour cream.
This keeps well and is particularly fine for lettuce, celery, beans,
asparagus or cauliflower.
(For Tomato Salad)
Cook white stock 20 minutes with onion, carrot, bay leaf, parsley and
peppercorns, and then strain; there should be one cupful.
Melt the butter, add flour, and gradually the hot stock and milk. Season
with salt and pepper.
One-half cup walnut catsup, 1 wine glass tomato catsup, 1 small cup
sherry (may be omitted), 1 tablespoon butter, rubbed smooth with flour,
1 small onion chopped very fine, 1 teaspoon currant jelly, salt and
pepper.
When thoroughly mixed lay slices of the meat in a dish, pour the gravy
over, then set dish in the oven until all is well heated through. Serve.
Make a plain white sauce and season to taste. When done add 3/4 cup of
grated horseradish and 1/2 cup cream.
Very good for meats, especially boiling meat.
[Illustration]
Beat slightly six eggs, add six tablespoons sugar, a pinch of salt and
one-half teaspoon vanilla. Scald three cups of milk and pour slowly over
the eggs, stirring constantly.
Melt in a granite or aluminum baking dish six tablespoons of sugar until
brown, using no water. Pour the custard into this, set into a pan of hot
water and bake in a slow oven 45 minutes or more until the custard is
set, and a testing knife comes out clean. The water in the pan must not
boil.
When perfectly cold turn upside down into a glass or china serving dish.
[Illustration]
Beat all well together, pour into a buttered dish and bake in a slow
oven until lightly browned.
Should be served at once, as it sinks down when cooling. This does not
harm it only it does not look so pretty. If it browns too
quickly--cover.
Beat eggs lightly and add crushed cracker crumbs till it forms a thick
paste, then thin with a little milk. Season with finely cut onion,
pepper and salt. Fry in butter, like pancakes. Very good and something
different.
Chop cooked spinach very fine and season with butter and salt. Put 1
tablespoon spinach in each buttered individual casserole, sprinkle with
1 teaspoon grated Parmesan cheese, and slip into each an egg. Cover each
egg with 1/2 teaspoon grated Parmesan cheese and 1 teaspoon Bechamel
sauce.
Bake until the eggs are set, and serve immediately. This makes a
delicious entree.
Bake in a quick oven in buttered baking dish.
Drain oysters. Put butter in pan and cook oysters until they curl. Beat
eggs lightly and put over oysters; season and shake until done. Serve at
once.
Scrape the potatoes into cold water to keep from discoloring. Put butter
and lard in skillet, and brown carefully, add potato squeezed out of the
water also onion, cook slowly and then beat the eggs and add.
When done on one side put a plate over the skillet and turn the omelet,
now slip in the pan and brown the other side. Serve at once.
[Illustration]
Sift the dry ingredients together and work in the butter. Mix with
enough milk to make a stiff dough which can be rolled as thin as a
wafer.
Put one thin layer on a pie-pan and butter lightly; lay another layer on
first. Bake eight minutes in a moderate oven.
When cold cut in pieces and split each piece. Place a large tablespoon
of crushed, sweetened strawberries between the layers, add the top
layer, add more berries, and last of all, a heaping tablespoon of ice
cream or frozen custard.
(for above Short Cake)
To 1 pint of milk add 1/2 pint of cream. Scald. Have ready 1 egg, well
beaten, 1 scant cup of granulated sugar, and one level tablespoon of
cornstarch.
Add this mixture to the milk and cream as soon as they come to a boil.
Stir and set aside to cool. When cold, add 1 teaspoon of vanilla and
freeze.
Cut apples in quarters and immediately put in saucepan and pour over
them boiling water just to cover.
Put on lid and boil quickly until tender. Sprinkle sugar over them to
taste. But never stir the apples at any time. When sugar is on leave the
lid off, let cook about five minutes longer, never stirring.
Ready to serve, hot or cold.
Make a syrup of water and sugar. Put in cinnamon drops. Pare and core
apples. Place in syrup and boil until tender, do not allow to break.
Take out when tender and place in a dish or if you wish in individual
dishes. Pour over syrup, and allow to cool. When cold pour whipped cream
on top of each and a cherry on top of cream.
Select bright red apples, cut off the tops and with a knife remove the
meat, leaving only sufficient wall to hold apple in shape. Make a
filling of the following:
To six apples allow about twelve tablespoons of very dry cooked rice,
six tablespoons cracker crumbs, six tablespoons chopped apples, six
tablespoons sugar, six tablespoons seeded raisins, six tablespoons
chopped almonds.
Whip one egg thoroughly, place in a cup and fill the cup with milk; stir
well and place in a double boiler, adding one-half teaspoon butter,
grated rind and juice of one-half lemon and a dash of nutmeg. Cook until
it thickens, cool, then mix it into the filling, being careful not to
get it too soft. Mold lightly with the fingers and fill the apples,
sprinkle with sugar, add a cupful of water and bake in a moderate oven.
Serve with whipped cream or custard sauce.
Wash and make a little slit in each berry. For each quart of berries put
one and a half large cups of hot or cold water in kettle. Then the
berries, then spread 2 cups sugar over them, also a pinch of soda. Keep
covered closely all the time, do not stir or lift lid until perfectly
cold. From the moment it begins to boil count five minutes--no more--to
cook them.
If you remove the lid the lovely gloss will be lost.
1 cup of rice boiled in water with a piece of butter and a little salt
until half done. Then add six apples cut in pieces. Cook together until
both rice and apples are well done. Add sugar to taste. When ready to
serve pour over melted butter browned. Serve with sugar and cinnamon.
Dissolve one package of gelatin in a cupful of cold water. Add to that
two cupfuls of sugar and one quart of boiling water. Divide the mixture
into three parts, in one of which place marshmallows and white grapes.
In the second one put pineapple and oranges and in the third nuts. Fill
individual glasses with different mixtures and serve them with whipped
cream. Decorate with preserved cherries, candied orange peel and nuts.
Pare and shred a ripe pineapple, add one cup of sugar and let stand for
several hours. Drain off one cup of the juice, boil it with
three-quarters of a cup of sugar for 10 minutes. Add slowly to well
beaten yolks of four eggs, and cook in a double boiler, stirring all the
time, until the mixture will coat the spoon. Remove from the fire and
beat until cold. Then add two tablespoons of lemon juice and two cups of
cream whipped to a stiff froth.
Pack in a mold, cover tightly and surround with ice and salt for four
hours.
Boil rice in a large quantity of boiling water for 20 minutes; drain and
add milk, sugar, lemon rind, currants. Let cook slowly for 15 minutes
and remove from fire; beat the yolk of an egg in a little milk and stir
in the rice.
Do not set back on the fire. Serve cold.
Take a cupful of the syrup from a jar of raspberry preserves and the
same amount of juice from a can of pineapple; add two tablespoons of
lemon juice and a syrup made by boiling together a pint of water and a
cupful of sugar. When cold add four tablespoons of orange juice and
freeze. When stiff, open the freezer and add the white of an egg, beaten
stiff with a teaspoon of powdered sugar.
Dissolve sugar in milk, place in freezer. Add lemon juice after freezer
has been packed. Add juice rapidly and with violent stirring, then
immediately place in dasher and turn the crank until frozen.
Peel and cut one orange and one grapefruit into small pieces, removing
all seeds and white bits of skin, add two sliced bananas, a tablespoon
of chopped or grated pineapple, sweeten to taste, and mix with the juice
from a can of pineapple. Stand in a very cold place, or put in the ice
cream freezer and partially freeze, serve in small glasses and ornament
with maraschino cherries. Reserve the remaining pineapple for a luncheon
dish.
An Accidental Discovery
I put too much water with my rhubarb and had a whole dishful of
beautiful pink juice left over, about a quart. In this I cooked some
apples, quartered, and stewed till soft, and just as an experiment added
a saucerful of strawberries--also "left over."
The result, being served, looked and tasted exactly like quince, except
that the apple was a little softer.
[Illustration]
Soak the grated rind of one orange in the juice of one lemon for 15
minutes. To this add a cupful of boiling water and a tablespoon of
sugar.
Place in a saucepan of granite ware and add one quart of unfermented
grape juice, four whole cloves and a pinch of powdered mace. Bring
slowly to the boiling point and simmer for ten minutes.
Boil together one cupful of sugar and two tablespoons of water without
stirring until it spins a thread.
Pour this gradually upon the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Add the
boiling grape juice, dust lightly with grated nutmeg and serve
immediately.
Soak half an ounce of pulverized gum arabic in half a cupful of cold
water for 30 minutes. Dissolve it over hot water.
Add one cupful of powdered sugar and cook until it will spin a thread.
Pour this upon the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, and when well
blended add gradually a pint of boiling cream, a few drops of essence of
peppermint and a tiny pinch of baking soda.
Serve while it foams, sprinkled with a little powdered cinnamon.
Slice very thin. Measure the fruit and add 3 times the quantity of
water. Stand in an earthen dish over night and in morning boil for ten
minutes. Stand another night and the second morning add pint for pint of
sugar and boil steadily until it jellies.
This should make 8 or 10 glasses but the size of fruit determines the
quantity. Stir as little as possible during the two hours or more of the
cooking which it requires. Do not use the rind of the grape fruit.
Boil grapes five to ten minutes. Then strain through a wire strainer and
afterwards cheese cloth. To every quart of juice add 1 lb. sugar. Bottle
and seal.
Tomato and Fig Pickles
One peck of green tomatoes sliced and salted in layers, place in granite
boiler over night. In the morning drain off brine and rinse in cold
water.
Chop up a pound of figs, add to the tomatoes, cover with vinegar and
boil twenty minutes; add 1 pound of seeded raisins, 1 cup of vinegar, 4
cups of sugar, 20 cloves and a few sticks of cinnamon tied in a cheese
cloth bag, and cook together slowly for 3/4 of an hour.
[Illustration]
Mix all together with Dove egg beater and cook until it boils. Watch
that it does not burn.
Cut the Kumquats into halves, pick out seeds, cover with cold water and
bring to a boil. In the meantime have your syrup boiling--1 pint sugar
to 3 pints water.
Drain fruit and put in syrup and simmer slowly for 1 hour. Take out
fruit and continue to simmer syrup until it begins to get thick.
Put the fruit into syrup--place preserving kettle in pot of boiling
water and let them, or let the water continue boiling until syrup is
thick as you like it. Put 1/4 teaspoon fine salt in first water, as it
adds a fine flavor. Grate stem off skin deep.
[Illustration]
Peel chestnuts and boil until skin can be removed. Boil prunes and
raisins together until soft, add chestnuts, sugar, salt, cloves and
butter, when well cooked thicken with flour and vinegar stirred
together.
Stem currants and seed cherries, then measure fruit. To each cup of
fruit allow equal amount of sugar. Put the fruit in kettle and add 1/2
cup of water; when it comes to boil add sugar and boil 20 minutes, then
put in jelly glasses.
Boil two hours or longer.
Slice in small pieces, add six pints of water and let stand in covered
dish for 24 hours. Then boil 1 1/4 hours; let stand another 24 hours.
Then add pint for pint of sugar with the mixture and boil until it
jells. (About 45 minutes).
Cut five pounds rhubarb into inch pieces without peeling. Add one pound
figs, four pounds sugar, the grated yellow rind and juice of one lemon
and let stand all night. In the morning simmer for an hour. Nut meats
may be added if desired.
Take off skins with boiling water. For each pound of fruit allow 1/2
cupful of sugar and 1/2 pint of water. When syrup is boiling, put in
peaches, a few at a time, and cook until done, but not too soft. Just
pierce with straw.
Spread on platters to cool.
When cool, put in jars and fill up with the syrup mixed with just as
much good brandy.
Have syrup thick and seal hot.
Boil onions, peppers in the vinegar; then add the cucumber. After it has
boiled a few minutes add the cauliflower and then the mustard sauce.
Boil together a few minutes; bottle and seal hot.
The cauliflower must be boiled alone before adding.
This is very excellent.
Cut the tomatoes and onions and boil one hour with the sugar, vinegar
and salt; at the end of an hour put it through a sieve; now return to
the stove and add your red peppers, cut very fine, and cook one more
hour. Have it about the consistency of thick cream and bottle hot. Very
fine for cold meats, fish, etc.
Chop tomatoes by themselves, then add finely chopped onions and peppers.
Lastly add sugar, salt and vinegar mixing well. Boil 2 hours and can.
Wash pickles well and pack in stone crock. Dissolve mustard in some of
the vinegar and mix all together and pour over pickles cold. Put on a
weight--ready to use in three days.
Makes 3 quarts of pickles Corn Salad
2 doz. ears of corn; boil twenty minutes on cob. Cut off cob; chop one
head cabbage; 3 green peppers, and 1 red pepper. Mix together. Put in
kettle with four pints vinegar; 3 tablespoons salt, 2 tablespoons ground
mustard; 4 cups sugar; 2 teaspoons celery seed. Cook 20 minutes.
Boil this mass for 3 hours, stirring constantly to keep from burning.
When cool, strain through a sieve and bottle for use. Vegetable coloring
may be used if you wish it to remain a bright red. (A family recipe
handed down for generations and very good, indeed).
This should be on hand in every household where children gladden the
hearth. Wherever possible distribute it among the little children of the
poor.
Take red roses, remove all the whites at the bottom. Take three times
their weight in sugar, put a pint of water to a pint of roses, skin
well, shred the roses a little before you put them into the water, and
cover them, and when the leaves are tender, put in the sugar.
Keep stirring lest they burn and the syrup be consumed.
Delicious fudge is made with sour cream instead of fresh milk or cream.
Mix well and allow it to boil slowly. Skim but do not stir. Boil until a
little hardens in water. Then add the vanilla and vinegar.
Now pour into buttered tins and when the edges harden, draw lightly to
the center. When cool pull until light. When doing so flour the hands
lightly.
Chop half a cupful each of almonds, pecans and walnuts and add enough
fondant to make the mixture of the right consistency to mold into
bonbons. Boil into little balls and dip in maple or chocolate fondant.
Boil all of the ingredients (except the vanilla) over a slow fire until
dissolved, and stir occasionally as it burns easily. Test by dropping
little in water. If it hardens quickly, remove at once from the fire.
Add vanilla and pour into buttered pans.
When cool, cut in squares with a buttered knife.
For sea foam candy cook three cupfuls of light brown sugar, a cupful of
water and a tablespoon of vinegar until the syrup forms a hard ball when
dropped into cold water. Pour it slowly over the stiffly beaten whites
of two eggs, beating continually until the candy is stiff enough to hold
its shape. Then work in half a cupful of chopped nuts and half a
teaspoon of vanilla. Drop in small pieces on waxed paper.
When the National Coffee Roasters' Association tells how to make good
coffee the housewife is naturally interested, no matter how fervently
the family may praise her own brew. Coffee is the business of these
gentlemen. They know it from the scientific standpoint as well as
practically. Their opinion as to the best method of preparing it for the
table is, therefore, worth consideration.
They tell us, first of all, that the virtues of the infusion depend
primarily upon the fineness with which the roasted bean is ground.
Careful experiments have shown, indeed, that when pulverized it gives a
larger yield of full strength beverage than in any other shape, so that
such grinding is urged in the interest of economy, as well as from a
gastronomic standpoint.
The grinding, however, must be done immediately before the coffee is
made. Otherwise no little of the delicate and much prized flavor of the
bean will escape.
The method of making the infusion is governed by the solubility of the
various elements composing the coffee. The caffeine and caffetannic acid
readily dissolve in cold water, but the delicate flavoring oils require
a considerable degree of heat. It so happens that water at the boiling
point, 212 deg. F., is twice as effective in extracting these flavors as
when at a temperature of 150 deg. F.
Nevertheless, the usual method of boiling the coffee is unsparingly
condemned by the association. The infusion thus made is very high in
caffeine and tannic acid. It is muddy, too, and overrich in dissolved
fibrous and bitter matters. As most of the deleterious effects of coffee
are due to dissolved tannin, owing to excessive boiling or the use of
grounds a second time, this method of making the beverage is
unqualifiedly condemned.
Steeping--that is, placing the coffee in cold water and permitting it to
come to a boil--is also deprecated. An infusion so made contains less
caffeine, to be sure, but it lacks the desired aromatic flavor and the
characteristic coffee taste.
In fine, the association leans to a method of coffee making known as
filtration. This consists in pouring boiling water once through finely
pulverized coffee confined in a close-meshed muslin bag. The resultant
infusion is one in which the percentage of tannin is extremely low.
There is a medium amount of caffeine, but the full flavor and
characteristic taste are present.
[Illustration]
To make cottage cheese effectively, with an aroma and delicacy equal to
its nourishment, a rich milk which has not lost time in souring should
be put in an earthenware or stone jar with the lid on, and placed in hot
water over a very slow fire until it is well heated with the curd
clotted from the whey. When it begins to steam the curd is drained a
very short period through cheese cloth. Well mixed with salt and butter
and pepper it is an ideal muscle and tissue maker.
Cottage cheese is much more easily turned into brawn, brain and bone
than any of the less porous, less ripe cheeses. In fact the curious
uncomfortably bloated sensation experienced by many who eat other
varieties of cheese is uncommon with cottage cheese.
Faulty mastication, peculiar susceptibilities to casein and an excess of
other solid foods often causes the distress which follows cheese eating.
If well emulsified with saliva by the teeth or mixed with water and not
gulped down, cottage cheese serves every sort of food purpose.
valuable.
The egg is a fluid food until its albumen is coagulated by heat. Often
the white of egg, dissolved in water or milk, and flavored, is given
when the yolk cannot be digested, as 30 per cent. of the yolk is fat.
Egg-nog is very nutritious, and is extensively prescribed in certain
non-febrile diseases, especially for the forced alimentation of phthisis
and melancholia. There are occasional cases of bilious habit, in which
eggs to be digested must be beaten in wine. But the combination of egg,
milk and sugar with alcohol, which constitutes egg-nog, is apt to
produce nausea and vomiting in a feeble stomach, especially in fever.
For this reason whole eggs are unfit for fever patients, and the whites
only should be used.
Albuminized drinks are most easily prepared cold. When a hot liquid is
used, it must be poured very slowly into the well-beaten egg, stirring
constantly, so that lumps of coagulated albumen do not form.
_For the Diabetic._ In all the albuminous drinks substitute Sweetina for
the sugar. The fuel value will be 60 calories less in every recipe than
when one tablespoon of sugar is used.
Beat egg, add sugar and salt. Pour on carefully the hot milk. Flavor as
desired, if with brandy or wine, use about one tablespoon.
NOTE.--Dried and rolled bread crumbs may be added, if desired. The whole
egg may be used. Hot water, broth or coffee, may be substituted for the
milk; nutmeg may be substituted for the stimulant.
Beat the egg, add the sugar and salt; blend thoroughly, add the milk and
liquor. Serve immediately.
NOTE.--Have eggs and milk chilled before blending. A grating of nutmeg
may be substituted for the stimulant. A lemonade shaker may be used for
the blending.
Separate egg. Beat yolk, add sugar and salt, and beat until creamy. Add
the milk and brandy. Beat the white till foamy (not stiff and dry), and
fold it in lightly. Serve immediately.
Beat white and yolk of egg separately, very light; blend the two. Add
the sugar dissolved in the rum. Heat the milk luke warm, stir into the
egg mixture, and add quickly the tablet dissolved in cold water. Pour
into small warm glasses, and sprinkle grated nutmeg over the top. Stand
in warm room undisturbed until firm, and then put on ice to cool. This
can be retained by the most delicate stomach.
Beat the egg slightly, add the salt and sugar; add gradually the hot
broth; add brandy and strain. Sugar and brandy may be omitted if
preferred.
Chill ingredients, and blend as for Egg-nog No. II.
Prepare as per Egg-nog No I or II; omit the brandy and use pineapple
juice to taste.
Beat yolk, add sugar, salt and nutmeg; add milk and rum.
NOTE.--For consumptives, taken at about 6 A. M., often prevents the
exhaustive sweats which accompany the morning doze. Also may be given to
a patient before dressing to prevent exhaustion.
Beat the eggs, add cold water, brandy and sweeten to taste. A little
nutmeg may be added. Give a tablespoonful at a time.
Beat the egg. Heat the water and wine together but not boiling; pour
onto the egg, stirring constantly; flavor with sugar and nutmeg.
Beat the egg thoroughly, add the sugar and lemon juice; pour in
gradually the water, stirring until smooth and well mixed. Strain and
serve. Two tablespoons of sherry or port may be added if desired.
Mix the malted milk powder, crushed fruit and egg and beat five minutes.
Add the phosphate and crushed ice, blending thoroughly. Strain and add
ice water or cold carbonated water, and a grating of nutmeg to flavor.
"2 egg yolks, 50 c. c. of brandy, 120 c. c. of aqua aurantii florun
(sugar or syrup enough to sweeten), has considerable nutritive, as well
as stimulative value, and is eligible for use when such a combination is
indicated."
Separate egg. Beat yolk, add sugar and stand aside while the white is
thoroughly whipped. Add the grape juice to the yolk and pour this onto
the whipped white, blending carefully. Serve cold. Have all ingredients
chilled before blending.
Beat yolk and white separately very light. To the yolk add milk, sugar
and grape juice, and pour into glass. To the white add a little powdered
sugar and a taste of grape juice. Serve on yolk mixture. Chill all
ingredients before using.
Put the spices into top of a double boiler with the water. Cover and
cook over hot water ten minutes. Add wine to the spiced water and bring
to the boiling point. Beat the egg to a stiff froth, add sugar and pour
on the mulled wine, and beat well. Serve at once.
Put milk and white of egg in a glass fruit jar, cover with air tight cap
and rubber band. Shake until thoroughly blended. Strain into glass. A
few grains of salt may be added if desired. Two teaspoons of Sanatogen
added     30 calories.
NOTE.--The blending may be done in a lemonade shaker.
Blend as for "Albuminized Milk," serve plain or add lemon juice and
sugar to taste. If set on ice to keep cool, shake before serving. Two
teaspoons of Sanatogen added    30 calories.
Albumin water is utilized chiefly in cases of acute stomach and
intestinal disorders in which some nutritious and easily assimilated
food is needed; albumin water is then very useful. The white of one egg
is dissolved in eight ounces or a pint of water which has been boiled
and cooled.
To the water add the required amount of the clam broth to make the
strength desired, add the unbeaten white of egg, and follow general
directions for "Albuminized Milk." Serve cold in dainty glasses. This is
a very nutritious drink, and will be retained by the stomach when other
nourishment is rejected.
NOTE.--Milk may be substituted for the water.
To the unbeaten white add the orange juice, sweeten to taste and blend
thoroughly. Strain and set on ice to cool. Serve cold.
Beat the white stiff, add slowly, while beating, the wine and sugar.
Serve cold.
